The 2015-16 Odense Boldklub season was the teams' 127th football season since formation. They ended 7th in the Danish Superliga and were knocked out in the third round of DBU Pokalen.  Pre-season and friendlies  OB did precede their 2015-16 campaign with a local tour of 2 exhibition matches on Funen, including a training camp in Sweden, with friendlies against Nottingham Forest and ngelholm.  First team  Last updated on 17 February 2016  Transfers and loans   Transfers in  a  Market value  Transfers out   Competitions   Danish Superliga   League table   Matches   Results summary   Result by round   DBU Pokalen   Squad statistics   Goalscorers  Includes all competitive matches. The list is sorted by shirt number when total goals are equal. Last updated on 8 May 2016  Disciplinary record  As of match played 8 May 2016  References 
Vitrimers are a class of plastics, which are derived from thermosetting polymers and are very similar to them. Vitrimers consist of molecular, covalent networks, which can change their topology by thermally activated bond-exchange reactions. At high temperatures, they can flow like viscoelastic liquids at low temperatures, the bond-exchange reactions are immeasurably slow , and the Vitrimers behave like classical thermosets at this point. Vitrimers are strong glass formers. Their behavior opens new possibilities in the application of thermosets, such as a self-healing material or simple processibility in a wide temperature range. Besides epoxy resins based on diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A, other polymer networks have been used to produce vitrimers, such as aromatic polyesters, polylactic acid , polyhydroxyurethanes, epoxidized soybean oil with citric acid, and polybutadiene. Vitrimers were termed as such in the early 2010s by French researcher Ludwik Leibler from the CNRS.  Background and significance  Thermoplastics are easy to process, but corrode easily by chemicals and mechanical stress, while the opposite is true of thermosets. These differences...
The Best Mayor, The King is a play by the Spanish playwright Lope de Vega. According to the dating proposed by Morley and Bruerton, it was written between 1620 and 1623. It was published in 1635 in the twenty-first part of de Vega's comedies. The action occurs in the early 12th century Galicia during the reign of Alfonso VII. Sancho de Roelas, a nobleman who has fallen on hard times, announces to his lord Tello de Neira his intention to marry Elvira de Olite, also of impoverished noble lineage. Don Tello offers to be best man at the wedding but on seeing Elvira falls in love with her beauty and kidnaps her. She refuses to have sex with him and Sancho travels to Leon to get Alfonso's help. Alfonso finally comes to Tello's manor-house incognito and - after revealing his identity and finding out that Tello has raped Elvira - forces him to marry Elvira. He then executes Tello, restoring Elvira's honour and endowing her with half of Tello's estate. It is from the 'villano honrado' genre, which involves a peasant fighting the abuses of a nobleman and the king finally giving him justice, restoring his honour and punishing the offending nobleman with...
Carnation Cafe is an American comfort food restaurant located in Main Street, U.S.A. at Disneyland in Anaheim, California in the United States. The restaurant opened in 1955 as Carnation Cafe Ice Cream Parlor.  History  Carnation Cafe Ice Cream Parlor opened on July 17, 1955. Sponsored by Carnation, the focus of the establishment was an ice cream counter, where guests ate ice cream on stools. Guests could also eat their ice cream outside on a patio. In 1977, the restaurant expanded into West Center Street, adding more outdoor seating. The Carnation Cafe Ice Cream Parlor closed in January 1997, and in March 1997, it reopened with only outdoor seating as the Carnation Cafe. Nestl, the owner of the Carnation brand, pulled out as a sponsor of the restaurant, but allowed Disneyland to keep the name. The former ice cream parlor became Blue Ribbon Bakery, which closed upon the opening of Jolly Holiday Bakery Caf. In 2012, the Carnation Cafe took back over the space, providing indoor seating for guests. Oscar Martinez, served as chef of Carnation Cafe from 1967 until 2017. He was the longest employee at Disneyland. His dish Oscar's Choice, remains on the menu.  Design  The restaurant...
Ishq Ibadat is a 2015 Pakistani romantic drama serial. It is based on a novel of Seema Ghazal, and was first broadcast by Hum TV on 21 July 2015. The series was directed by Fahim Burney and produced by Concepts  Fahim Burney. It stars Resham, Wahaj Ali and Anum Fayyaz in lead roles.  Cast  Resham Wahaj Ali as Sahil Anum Fayyaz Mariya Khan Shafqat Cheema Irfan Khoosat Fareeha Jabeen Khalid Butt Tariq Tayyab Raheela Agha as Khala Jan Asma Abbas Arsalan Rafiq  External links  Official Playlist on Youtube Official Playlist on Dailymotion Official Facebook Page Ishq Ibadat at IMDb
Srysundet is a strait in Hasvik Municipality and Hammerfest Municipality in Finnmark county, Norway. The 70-kilometre strait is between 4 and 17 kilometres wide. The strait separates the large island of Srya from the islands of Stjernya, Seiland, and Kvalya. To the southwest the strait opens up into Lopphavet sea. The small island of Hja lies in the strait, about 9 kilometres west of the town of Hammerfest. There are no bridges or tunnels that cross the strait, but there are ferry routes crossing it.  References 
Grard Soisson was a Luxembourgish banker who was at the center of the Clearstream Affair. He was the person who authorized each non-published account, which would be known only by some insiders, including the auditors and members of the council of administration. Whereas Soisson had refused numerous requests to open non-published accounts from such institutions as Chase Manhattan in New York City, Chemical Bank of London, and numerous subsidiaries of Citibank, Cedel opened hundreds of non-published accounts, all of them irregular, especially after the arrival of CEO Andr Lussi in 1990. By 1980, Ernest Backes had become Cedel's 3, in charge of relations with clients, but he was fired in May 1983, allegedly because he knew too much about the Ambrosiano scandal. Two months after his dismissal, Grard Soisson was found dead in Corsica. With Soisson out of the way, there was nothing to stop the abuse of the system, wrote Lucy Komisar. No longer were they just sub-accounts of officially listed accounts, as Backes charges. Some were for banks that were not subsidiaries or even official members of Cedel. At the start of 1995, Cedel had more than 2,200 published accounts. But...
U.S. Naval Radio Station Otter Cliffs was a United States Navy radio receiver facility located in Acadia National Park on Mount Desert Island, south of Bar Harbor, Maine. The station was commissioned on August 28, 1917, under the command of Lt. Alessandro Fabbri, who had personally cleared the land, built and equipped the station, and offered it to the government in exchange for a commission in the Naval Reserve and assignment as Officer-in-Charge. Prior to the war, Fabbri was a licensed radio amateur with the U.S. Government issued call sign 1AJ. Otter Cliffs was the Navy's best transatlantic radio receiver site because of its absence of nearby man-made radio noise, its unobstructed ocean path from Europe, and the outstanding receivers, antennas and noise mitigation techniques developed by the Wireless Specialty Apparatus Company under the leadership of Greenleaf Whittier Pickard. Pickard is well known for his early inventions in connection with loop aerials, direction-finding systems and static mitigating devices used at Otter Cliffs during the war. His technical achievements and illustrations of equipment at Otter Cliffs during the war were documented in detail in the Proceedings...
Walk the Line is a British music competition television series created and produced by Lifted Entertainment and Syco Entertainment. The ITV programme is presented by Maya Jama with a judging panel consisting of Gary Barlow, Craig David, Dawn French and Alesha Dixon. Simon Cowell was originally set to be the head judge on the panel, but was replaced by Barlow. On 24 August 2022, it was announced that the series had been cancelled after one series.  Format  Walk the Line is a music competition where five music acts appear and compete for the grand final prize of 500,000. However, instead of going straight into the final, the winner of an episode has to decide whether to come back the next night to perform again with the risk of being dropped from the competition at that point. If they do not want to take that risk then they can take a monetary prize 10,000 in the first episode, with the prize increasing by a further 10,000 each night, with the runner-up continuing on towards the grand prize by competing in the next episode.  Episode winners  The winner of the first three episodes was Bristol-born singer Ella Rothwell, who has previously released singles such as Stop Calling...
The 1960-61 Bradford City A.F.C. season was the 48th in the club's history. The club finished 22nd in Division Three , reached the 2nd round of the FA Cup and the 3rd round of the League Cup.  Sources  Frost, Terry . Bradford City A Complete Record 1903-1988. Breedon Books Sport. ISBN 0-907969-38-0.  References 
Hayakawa Castle is a Kamakura period Japanese castle located in what is now the Hayakawa-Shiroyama neighborhood of the city of Ayase, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. Its ruins have been protected as a Kanagawa Prefectural Historic Site since 2008.  Overview  Hayakawa Castle is situated on the southern end of a tongue-shaped plateau on the left bank of the Mekujiri River, a tributary of the Sagami River, approximately 700 meters west of Ayase City Hall. It is said to have been built by Shibuya Shigekuni, a samurai of the late Heian to early Kamakura period, but historical records are scarce, and its actual construction remains unclear. Six archaeological excavations were conducted between 1989 and 1994. The excavations unearthed remains such as baileys, moats, earthworks, lookout mounds, pits , and ditches, as well as artifacts such as earthenware and fire pits. While the construction date would be the 12th century according to tradition, the aforementioned excavations only confirmed use from the 14th to 15th centuries. In the late Heian period, the Shibuya clan was a powerful samurai family that controlled a shen landed estate called Shibuya-sh...
Joseph Oliver Bowers, SVD was a Catholic prelate from Dominica who served as Bishop of St. Johns-Basseterre from 1971 to 1981. He previously served as Bishop of Accra beginning in 1953. He was the first Black Catholic bishop from the Western Hemisphere, and the first ever to ordain Black priests. He was a member of the Divine Word Fathers. He is credited with having tripled the Catholic population and parishes in Ghana and for substantially increasing the number of Catholic priests and religious laity in the Diocese of Accra. At the time of his death in Ghana, aged 102, he was the second-oldest Catholic bishop and the oldest from the Caribbean.  Biography  Bowers was born on 28 March 1910 in Dominica, to Sheriff Montague Bowers and his wife Mary. He was educated at the Dominica Grammar School before travelling to the United States to attend St. Augustine Seminary in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. He was ordained on 22 January 1939 as a priest for the Society of the Divine Word and was sent to the missions in Ghana. He was sent to Pontifical Gregorian University to study canon law in 1950, graduating in 1952. Bowers was appointed...
The Real Housewives of Melbourne is an Australian reality television series that premiered 23 February 2014 on Arena. It was developed as one of the international installments of The Real Housewives, an American television franchise. The series chronicles the lives of several women living in Melbourne, Australia. The series originally focused on Gina Liano, Jackie Gillies, Andrea Moss, Janet Roach, Chyka Keebaugh and Lydia Schiavello the lineup currently consists of Gillies, Roach, Gamble Breaux, Cherry Dipietrantonio, Kyla Kirkpatrick and Simone Elliott. Of the original housewives, Moss left after the first season, whilst Keebaugh departed after the third and Liano and Schiavello after the fourth. The remaining housewives joined in later seasons: Breaux in the second, Dipietrantonio, Kirkpatrick and Elliott in the fifth. Other housewives include Pettifleur Berenger , Susie McLean , Sally Bloomfield , Venus Behbahani-Clark and Anjali Rao . Its success allowed for the development of The Real Housewives franchise by Matchbox Pictures and similar spin-off series based in Sydney and Auckland, New Zealand....
Michael McFarland was an American voice actor, ADR director, script writer and line producer who worked on English dubs of Japanese anime. He was known as the original English voice of Master Roshi and Yajirobe in Funimation's dubs of Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z. McFarland's other notable roles included Teppei Sugo in Psycho-Pass, Jean Havoc in Fullmetal Alchemist, Buggy the Clown in the Funimation dub of One Piece, and Jean Kirstein in Attack on Titan. He voice directed on multiple Funimation titles, including Dragon Ball, Fullmetal Alchemist, Case Closed, and Attack on Titan, the Rebuild of Evangelion films, and Summer Wars.  Early life and career  Mike McFarland was born in Texas City, Texas, on July 14, 1970. McFarland joined Funimation in 1997 and was cast in his first major role as Master Roshi in Dragon Ball two years later. McFarland also served as the ADR director for the Dragon Ball franchise. These roles played an important part in shaping the franchise's legacy in the United States. McFarland would subsequently be cast in other prominent roles, including Buggy the Clown in One Piece, Jean Havoc in Fullmetal Alchemist, and Jean Kirstein...
Nira Devi Jairu is a Nepali communist politician and a member of the House of Representatives of the federal parliament of Nepal. She was elected under the proportional representation system from CPN UML, filling the reserved seat for women group. She currently represents the newly formed Nepal Communist Party in parliament, where she also chairs the Parliamentary Committee on Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of State's Directive Principles, Policies and Responsibilities. She was also appointed the Co-Incharge of Dadeldhura district for NCP.  References 
Ciara N  is an Irish poet, playwright, screenwriter and broadcaster who often works through the Irish language. She is the founder of the bilingual spoken-word event REIC and co-founder with Eoin McEvoy of the LGBTQ arts collective AerachAiteachGaelach. Her work has been published in anthologies including Bone and MarrowCnmh agus Smior , Queering the Green , and Washing Windows Too . She has performed widely in Ireland and internationally, with appearances at festivals and venues in New York, London, Berlin, Paris, and Stockholm. N  was named on the Irish Examiner's list of 100 Women Changing Ireland . Her broadcasting work includes the TG4 documentary Ciara N : Saol Tr Ghaeilge , which was shortlisted for the Celtic Media Festival and Oireachtas Media Awards.  Early life and education  N  grew up in Clontarf, Dublin, and is one of five children. She studied English Literature and Modern Irish at Trinity College Dublin, graduating in 2013. She later completed a master's degree in Scrobh agus Cumarsid na Gaeilge at University College Dublin in 2015. In 2017-18 she taught...
Heinrichsburg refers to: in Germany Heinrichsburg , a castle near Biberach in Baden-Wrttemberg Heinrichsburg , a castle near Gernrode in Saxony-Anhalt Heinrichsburg , a ruined castle near Neustadt im Harz, Lower Saxony Lichtenberg Castle , a ruined castle near Salzgitter in Lower Saxony in Poland: Heinrichsburg , a castle near Staniszw in Powiat Jeleniogrski in the Voivodship of Lower Silesia See also: Heinrichsberg
The film industry of the United States, primarily associated with major film studios collectively referred to as Hollywood, has significantly influenced the global film industry since the early 20th century. Classical Hollywood cinema, a filmmaking style developed in the 1910s, continues to shape many American films today. While French filmmakers Auguste and Louis Lumire are often credited with modern cinema's origins, American filmmaking quickly rose to global dominance. As of 2024, the United States produced 544 national feature films, making it the world's fourth-largest film producer after India, Japan and China. Although the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand also produce English-language films, they are not directly part of the Hollywood system. Due to this global reach, Hollywood is frequently regarded as a transnational cinema with some films released in multiple language versions, such as Spanish and French. Contemporary Hollywood frequently outsources production to countries including the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. The five major film studios-Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, Warner Bros., Walt Disney Studios, Sony Pictures...
Primal Fear is a 1996 American legal psychological thriller film directed by Gregory Hoblit, based on the 1993 novel of the same name by William Diehl, written by Steve Shagan and Ann Biderman. It stars Richard Gere, Laura Linney, John Mahoney, Alfre Woodard, Frances McDormand, and Edward Norton in his film debut. The film follows a Chicago-based defense attorney who believes that his client, an altar boy, is not guilty of murdering a Catholic bishop. Primal Fear premiered in Los Angeles on April 1, 1996 before being released by Paramount Pictures on April 5, 1996. The film was a box office success and received positive reviews, with Norton's performance earning critical praise. Norton won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor - Motion Picture, and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor and the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role.  Plot  Martin Vail is an arrogant Chicago defense attorney, known for defending undesirable but high-profile clients, including alleged mob boss Joey Piero. Vail was previously a state prosecuting attorney, but after finding it to be a dead-end career, he became a defense attorney. Fond of the spotlight, Vail...
The Prodigy is a 2019 horror film directed by Nicholas McCarthy, and written by Jeff Buhler. It stars Taylor Schilling, Jackson Robert Scott, and Colm Feore. The plot centers around a child whose disturbing behavior signals that an evil, possibly supernatural being has taken control of him, forcing his parents to investigate whether sinister forces are involved. An international co-production film between the United States, Canada and Hong Kong. The Prodigy was released in the United States on February 8, 2019, by Mirror Releasing and Orion Pictures. The film grossed 21.1 million and received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the performances and atmosphere but criticised the story and dialogue.  Plot  On August 22, 2010, in rural Ohio, serial killer Edward Scarka is fatally shot during a police raid of his farmhouse. At the time of Edward's death, married couple Sarah and John give birth to their son, Miles, in Pennsylvania. Miles shows extreme wisdom and intelligence from a young age and begins speaking fluently before he is even a toddler. When Miles turns eight in 2018, Sarah and John begin noticing behavioural changes in him. One night he plays a prank on his babysitter...
Enemy is a 2013 psychological thriller film directed by Denis Villeneuve and produced by M. A. Faura and Niv Fichman. Written by Javier Gulln, the film is loosely adapted from the 2002 Jos Saramago novel The Double. The film stars Jake Gyllenhaal in a dual role as two men who are physically identical, but different in personality. Mlanie Laurent, Sarah Gadon, and Isabella Rossellini co-star. Enemy is an international co-production of companies from Spain, France and Canada. Enemy premiered in the Special Presentation section at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival on September 8. Upon its wide release by A24 on March 14, 2014, the film earned 3.4 million at the box office and received positive reviews.  Plot  At an underground club, a man attends an erotic show which culminates with a naked woman about to crush a live tarantula under her high-heel. Adam Bell, a college history professor, lives a quiet, mundane life in Toronto. He rents a film, Where There's a Will There's a Way, on the recommendation of a colleague, and spots an actor who looks strikingly like himself playing a bellhop. Searching online, Adam identifies the actor as Anthony Claire. Adam rents the other...
Doctor Zhivago is a 1965 epic historical romance film directed by David Lean with a screenplay by Robert Bolt, based on the 1957 novel by Boris Pasternak. The story is set in Russia during World War I and the Russian Civil War. The film stars Omar Sharif in the title role as Yuri Zhivago, a married physician and poet whose life is altered by the Russian Revolution and subsequent civil war, and Julie Christie as his lover Lara Antipova. Geraldine Chaplin, Tom Courtenay, Rod Steiger, Alec Guinness, Ralph Richardson, Siobhn McKenna, and Rita Tushingham play supporting roles. Although immensely popular in the West, Pasternak's book was banned in the Soviet Union for decades. As the film could not be made there, it was instead filmed mostly in Spain. It was an international co-production between Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Italian producer Carlo Ponti. Contemporary critics were critical of its length at over three hours and claimed that it trivialized history, but acknowledged the intensity of the love story and the film's treatment of human themes. At the 38th Academy Awards, Doctor Zhivago was nominated for ten Oscars and won five: Best Adapted Screenplay, Original...
The Time Traveler's Wife is a 2009 American romantic science fiction tragedy film based on Audrey Niffenegger's 2003 novel. Directed by Robert Schwentke, the film stars Eric Bana, Rachel McAdams, and Ron Livingston. The story follows Henry DeTamble , a Chicago librarian with a paranormal genetic disorder that causes him to randomly time travel. He tries to build a romantic relationship with Clare Abshire , whom he meets when she is a child, and who later becomes his wife. Filming began in September 2007, originally in anticipation of a fall 2008 release. The film's release was postponed with initially no official explanation from the studio. McAdams later noted that the delay was due to additional scenes and reshoots that could not be completed until the season at their outdoor location matched previously filmed footage, and Bana had regrown his hair following his work on the 2009 film Star Trek. Produced by New Line Cinema, the film was released on August 14, 2009, by Warner Bros. Pictures to mixed reviews but was a commercial success.  Plot  In the early 1970s, Henry DeTamble is in a car accident that kills his mother, Annette DeTamble, but he survives by inadvertently...
Shutter Island is a 2010 American neo-noir psychological thriller film directed by Martin Scorsese. The screenplay was adapted by Laeta Kalogridis from the 2003 novel by Dennis Lehane. It follows Deputy U.S. Marshal Edward Teddy Daniels and his partner Chuck, who come to the fictional Shutter Island in Boston Harbor to investigate its criminal psychiatric facility after one of its patients goes missing Daniels has his own ulterior motives for taking the case. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo, with Ben Kingsley, Max von Sydow and Michelle Williams in supporting roles. Development began when Phoenix Pictures acquired the film rights to the novel directly from Lehane after Columbia Pictures had allowed their rights to lapse in 2003. Phoenix hired Laeta Kalogridis to work on a screenplay for a year, and in 2007, announced that both Scorsese and DiCaprio had joined the project. Production began on March 6, 2008, at various locations in Massachusetts filming ended on July 2, 2008. Partnering with Paramount Pictures, the film's wide release was on February 19, 2010, and received generally positive reviews from critics. It was ranked by the National Board of Review in their...
Doctor Sleep is a 2019 American supernatural horror film written, directed, and edited by Mike Flanagan. It is a film adaptation of the 2013 novel by Stephen King and serves as a sequel to The Shining . The film stars Ewan McGregor as Dan Torrance, a man with psychic abilities and a drinking problem, who struggles with childhood trauma caused by the horrors at the Overlook Hotel. Rebecca Ferguson, Kyliegh Curran, and Cliff Curtis have supporting roles as new characters: Abra Stone and Billy Freeman team up with Dan to take down Rose the Hat and her gang of followers. Warner Bros. Pictures began developing a film adaptation shortly after Doctor Sleep was published in 2013. Writer-producer Akiva Goldsman wrote a script, but the studio did not secure a budget for the film until the box office success of its 2017 horror film It, also based on a novel by King. Flanagan was hired to rewrite Goldsman's script and direct the Doctor Sleep film. Flanagan said he wanted to reconcile the differences between The Shining novel and film. Filming began in September 2018 in Georgia, including Atlanta and the surrounding area, and concluded that December. Doctor Sleep held its world premiere at...
Dunkirk is a 2017 war film produced, written, and directed by Christopher Nolan that depicts the Dunkirk evacuation of World War II from the perspectives of people on the land, sea, and air. It features an ensemble cast including Fionn Whitehead, Tom Glynn-Carney, Jack Lowden, Harry Styles in his feature film debut, Aneurin Barnard, James D'Arcy, Barry Keoghan, Kenneth Branagh, Cillian Murphy, Mark Rylance, and Tom Hardy. The film portrays the evacuation with little dialogue, as Nolan sought instead to create suspense through cinematography and music. Filming began in May 2016 in Dunkirk and wrapped that September in Los Angeles, when post-production began. Cinematographer Hoyte van Hoytema shot the film on IMA 65 mm and 65 mm large-format film stock. Dunkirk has extensive practical effects. It employed thousands of extras as well as historic boats from the evacuation, and period aeroplanes. Distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures, Dunkirk premiered at Odeon Leicester Square in London, a few days before its release in the United Kingdom and United States on 21 July 2017. It grossed over 530 million worldwide, making it the highest-grossing World War II film until it was surpassed by...
He's Just Not That into You is a 2009 romantic comedy-drama film directed by Ken Kwapis, based on Greg Behrendt and Liz Tuccillo's 2004 self-help book. It follows nine people and their varying romantic problems. Gigi, a common thread amongst the characters, is followed more closely than the other eight and has a more developed storyline as she consistently misreads all of her romantic partners' behaviors. She meets Alex, who helps her to interpret signs given to her by her dates. The film stars an ensemble cast of Ben Affleck, Jennifer Aniston, Drew Barrymore, Jennifer Connelly, Kevin Connolly, Bradley Cooper, Ginnifer Goodwin, Scarlett Johansson, and Justin Long. The film was produced by New Line Cinema and Flower Films, the production company owned by Barrymore, who is also the film's executive producer. Production began in Baltimore in 2007. The film was released on February 6, 2009, by Warner Bros. Pictures to mixed reviews. It grossed 27.7 million on its opening weekend and over 178.8 million worldwide.  Plot   Gigi, Conor and Alex  Following a tepid date with real estate agent Conor Barry, Gigi is befriended by bar owner Alex, who suggests she misinterprets romantic...
 is a 2002 American action thriller film starring Vin Diesel as ander Cage, a thrill-seeking extreme sports enthusiast, stuntman, and rebellious athlete-turned-reluctant spy for the National Security Agency who is sent on a dangerous mission to infiltrate a group of potential Russian terrorists in Central Europe. The first installment in the  film series, the film was directed by Rob Cohen, produced by Neal H. Moritz and written by Rich Wilkes. The film also stars Asia Argento, and Marton Csokas. Cohen, Moritz, and Diesel had previously worked on The Fast and the Furious as director, producer and cast member respectively. The film was released by Sony Pictures Releasing on August 9, 2002, and grossed 277.4 million worldwide and was followed by two sequels, xx: State of the Union and xx: Return of ander Cage .  Plot  Russian terrorist group Anarchy 99 acquires the biochemical weapon Silent Night, presumed missing since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Undercover NSA agent Jim McGrath is assigned to recover the weapon, but is killed by Anarchy 99 at a Rammstein concert. NSA Agent Augustus Gibbons suggests...
This chronological list of erotic films is organized by decade. There may be considerable overlap between erotica and other genres including drama, horror and comedy. The list attempts to document films which are more closely related to erotica, even if it bends genres. Erotic thrillers are listed on a separate page.  1950s   1960s   1970s   1980s   1990s   2000s   2010s   2020s   See also  List of French erotic films Pre-Code sex films Sex in film List of erotic thriller films  References 
The Secret Life of Bees is a 2008 American drama film adapted from the 2001 novel by Sue Monk Kidd. Starring Queen Latifah, Dakota Fanning, Jennifer Hudson, Alicia Keys, Sophie Okonedo, and Paul Bettany, the film was written and directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, and produced by Lauren Shuler Donner and Will Smith, with Jada Pinkett Smith as the executive producer. The Secret Life of Bees was released in the United States on October 17, 2008, and in the United Kingdom on December 5, 2008, to varied reviews. Critics praised it for being faithful to the source material and complimented the performances while some criticized the sentimental tone and the simplistic handling of complex issues. The film became a moderate success financially, grossing 40 million on a budget of 11 million.  Plot  In 1964, Lily Owens lives on a South Carolina peach orchard with her abusive, widowed father T. Ray. Ten years earlier, then-four-year-old Lily had accidentally shot her mother, Deborah, as she was attempting to leave T. Ray. As Lily's 14th birthday approaches, she celebrates the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with her father's Black hired help, Rosaleen. On the night before her birthday...
u C was, according to the creation myth of the Vietnamese people, an immortal mountain snow goddess who married Lc Long Qun , and bore an egg sac that hatched a hundred children known collectively as Bch Vit, ancestors to the Vietnamese people. u C is often honored as the mother of Vietnamese civilization.  Mythology  u C was a beautiful tin who lived high in the snow-capped mountains. She traveled to help those who suffered from illnesses since she was very skillful in medicine and had a sympathetic heart. One day, a monster suddenly appeared before her while she was on her travels. It frightened her, so she transformed into a crane to fly away. Lc Long Qun, the dragon king from the sea, passed by and saw the crane in danger. He grabbed a nearby rock and killed the monster with it. When u C stopped flying to see the very person that saved her, she turned back into a tin and instantly fell in love with her savior. She soon bore an egg sac, from which hatched a hundred children. However, despite their love for each other, u C had always desired to be in the mountains again and Lc...
Kefah Mokbel is a British surgeon who is the chair of breast cancer surgery and the multidisciplinary breast cancer program at the London Breast Institute of the Princess Grace Hospital part of HCA Healthcare, Professor of Breast Cancer Surgery at Brunel University London, an honorary consultant breast surgeon at St George's Hospital. Kefah Mokbel is the founder and current president of Breast Cancer Hope a UK-based charity dedicated to improving the quantity and quality of life in women diagnosed with breast cancer. He was appointed as a substantive consultant breast surgeon at St George's Hospital NHS trust in February 2001. He was named in Tatler magazine's Best Doctors Guide as one of the featured Top Breast Surgeons in 2006, 2007, 2013, and 2025 In November 2010 he was named in the Times magazine's list of Britain's Top Doctors.  Personal details and education  Kefah Mokbel was born in 1965 in the currently occupied Golan Heights in Syria. He studied A levels in a boarding school in Shrewsbury. He graduated from the University of London in 1990. He qualified as a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1994. He...
Jokela High School is a public secondary school in Jokela School Centre in the village of Jokela, Tuusula municipality, Finland. It is located 43 kilometres outside the capital Helsinki. The school educates about 450 pupils. Jokela School Centre also houses grades 7-9.  School shooting  The school was the site of one of only four Finnish school shootings. On 7 November 2007, at approximately 11:44 local time Pekka-Eric Auvinen opened fire at Jokela High School. The incident resulted in the death of nine people: five male pupils and one female pupil the school principal the school nurse and the shooter himself, who was also one of the school's pupils. Hours before the incident, the shooter posted a video on YouTube predicting the massacre at the school. Jokela High School reopened on 15 November 2007.  References   External links  Official website
The Shahanshahi calendar Persian:  , romanized: Ghshomri-ye Shhanshhi, lit. 'Imperial Calendar' was the official calendar of Pahlavi Iran from 1976 to 1978. It was declared as the official calendar of Iran on March 14, 1976, following a joint session of the National Consultative Assembly and the Senate. Prior to this, the Solar Hijri calendar was used as the official calendar of the country. This legislation changed the epoch of the solar calendar from the Hijrah to the coronation of Cyrus the Great. According to this calendar, the year 1 of the Shahanshahi era corresponds to 559 BCE, and the year 2500 of the Shahanshahi era coincides with 1942 CE.  Adoption  The idea of changing the epoch of the Iranian calendar was not new to the Pahlavi government. As early as 1967, Mohammad Farahmand proposed the idea to Hushang Ansary, who was then Iran's Ambassador to the United States and later became Minister of Tourism and Information. The idea, as proposed by Mohammad Farahmand, argued that the calendar used by Iranians was not a Persian calendar and therefore a disgrace to Iranian identity. Farahmand insisted that Iranians should have their own distinct calendar...
UAAP Season 85 was the 2022-23 athletic year of the University Athletic Association of the Philippines . Season 85 theme is Rise as One, and the season host was the Adamson University. With just seven events in Season 84, the collegiate league will be bringing back the full athletic calendar of events for Season 85. The year 2022 will thus hold two UAAP seasons. UAAP Season 84 was held starting March 26, 2022, and Season 85 started on October 1, 2022. Opening ceremony was a pre-recorded one that commenced at 1:00 pm on UAAP Varsity Channel.  Sports calendar  This is the calendar of sports events of UAAP Season 85. The list includes the tournament host schools and the venues.  First Semester   Second Semester   Basketball  The tournament started on October 1, 2022, at the SM Mall of Asia Arena and games are scheduled three times a week . Four basketball games are scheduled every Wednesdays, and two games every Saturdays and Sundays. All teams play in the Wednesday play dates. The reason behind the quick tournament is to give way for the fifth window of the FIBA World Cup 2023 Asian Qualifiers in November. The men...
John Philip III, Wild- and Rhinegrave of Salm-Dhaun was a German nobleman. He was the ruling Wild- and Rhinegrave of Salm-Dhaun from 1733 until his death. He was the son of Wild- and Rhinegrave Charles and his wife Louise, a daughter of Frederick Louis, Count of Nassau-Ottweiler. John Philip III never married and was only 18 years old when he died. He was succeeded by his uncle Christian Otto, because his father he no more living male-line descendants.
Patricia C. Quinn ne Lyons 23 April 1927 - 11 October 2025, best known by her former married name Pat Appleyard, was a British rally driver and co-driver.  Early life and motorsport career  Patricia C. Lyons was born on 23 April 1927, the daughter of Jaguar Cars founder Sir William Lyons. Co-driving with her then-husband, Ian Appleyard, she won the Alpine Rally's Coupe des Alpes each year from 1950 to 1953, in one of her father's company's Jaguar K120 cars. On the third of these triumphs, in 1952, the Appleyards were the first crew ever to be awarded the event's Coupe d'Or , for having won three consecutive Coupes des Alpes. During their competitive career the couple's major event victories also included the 1951 and 1953 RAC Rallies, and the 1951 Tulip Rally, and they were runners-up in the 1953 European Rally Championship. Her own driving career was less successful than her husband's, a fact that she herself partly put down to being unable to find suitably qualified female co-drivers, but nevertheless, she won a number of ladies' trophies in British events.  Later life and death  Appleyard remarried in 1962, and latterly became well known as a farmer of rare...
Ashish Yadav is an Indian cricketer. He made his first-class debut for Uttar Pradesh in the 2010-11 Ranji Trophy on 1 December 2010. He was the leading wicket-taker for Railways in the 2018-19 Vijay Hazare Trophy, with eleven dismissals in six matches.  References   External links  Ashish Yadav at Cricinfo
The 1970 North Texas State Mean Green football team was an American football team that represented North Texas State University now known as the University of North Texas during the 1970 NCAA University Division football season as a member of the Missouri Valley Conference. In their fourth year under head coach Rod Rust, the team compiled a 3-8 record.  Schedule   Roster   References 
Ortenburg Castle is a ruined mediaeval castle located in Baldramsdorf, in the Austrian state of Carinthia. It is located on the northern slope of Mt. Goldeck, part of the Gailtal Alps, above the Drava valley at a height of 740 m .  History  The construction of the fortress was begun in the late 11th century by one noble Adalbert from Bavaria, a ministerialis of the Bishops of Freising, who then held large possessions in the Upper Carinthian Lurngau around the former Roman city of Teurnia. Adalbert's son Otto appeared as a Count of Ortenburg in 1141. First mentioned in an 1136 deed, Ortenburg Castle served as an administrative centre of the vast Ortenburg estates, initially rivalled by the Counts of Lurn with their ancestral seat at Hohenburg Castle beyond the Drava river. The Ortenburg inherited large estates in the Drava valley upon the extinction of the Lurn counts in 1135. In 1192 Count Otto II of Ortenburg and his brother Hermann founded the settlement of Spittal below the castle. Otto II is also mentioned as a participant of the Crusade of Henry VI in 1195. In 1276 the Ortenburgs sided with Count Meinhard II of Gorizia-Tyrol and the newly elected Habsburg king Rudolf...
Madonna is an American singer-songwriter and actress. Madonna may also refer to:  People  Mary, mother of Jesus Madonna , a given name or surname originally from Italian Madonna , a moniker of several individuals after the American singer Madonna, a nickname of Joan Baez Madonna, leader of 1990s gang 5T  Art  Madonna , pictorial or sculptured representations of Mary, mother of Jesus Madonna , an 1895 painting by Edvard Munch Anarchist Madonna, a photograph of Ana Garbn  Film  Madonna , a Croatian film Madonna , a South Korean film  Music   Albums  Madonna Madonna Madonna ...And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead album Madonna , a 2010 EP by Secret  Songs  Madonna , 2021 Madonna , 2024 Madonna, a 1988 song by Sparks from Interior Design Madonna, a 2004 song by CocoRosie from La maison de mon rve Madonna, a 2010 song by Secret from Madonna Madonna, a 2015 song by Drake from If You're Reading This It's Too Late Madonna, a 2021 song by Bausa Madonna, a 2021 song...
The Slimnic is a left tributary of the river Coatcu in Romania. It discharges into the Rmnicul Srat near Vjitoarea. The upper reach of the river is sometimes referred to as Tmboeti. It flows through the villages Bordetii de Jos, Tmboeti, Slimnic, Obrejia, Sihlea and Bogza. Its length is 31 km and its basin size is 94 km2 .  References 
Vipera berus bosniensis, the Balkan cross adder or Bosnian viper, is a venomous subspecies of viper endemic to the Balkan Peninsula.  Geographic range  It is only found within the Balkan Peninsula, particularly the Herzegovina region of Bosnia and Herzegovina, hence its common name.  Taxonomy  McDiarmid et al. follow Golay et al. and recognize V. b. bosniensis as a subspecies of V. berus. However, it has been considered a full species in recent literature.  References   Further reading   External links  Vipera berus at the Reptarium.cz Reptile Database. Accessed 21 November 2007.
Most New Zealand place names have a Mori or a British origin. Both groups used names to commemorate notable people, events, places from their homeland, and their ships, or to describe the surrounding area. It is unknown whether Mori had a name for the whole of New Zealand before the arrival of Europeans, but post-colonisation the name Aotearoa commonly translated as 'long white cloud' has been used to refer to the whole country. Dutch cartographers named the islands Nova Zeelandia, the Latin translation of the Dutch Nieuw Zeeland . By the time of British exploration, the country's name was anglicised to New Zealand. Many of the early Mori names were replaced by Europeans during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Legislation in 1894 and the establishment of the New Zealand Geographic Board in 1946 led to the encouragement of original Mori names, although differing spellings and anglicised pronunciations persisted. Many names now have alternative or dual English and Mori names or, in a few rare cases, dual Mori names or dual English names. Most names have never been made official, but if they are mentioned in authoritative publications...
Anglo-American Freemasonry also self-described as Regular Freemasonry is a loose network of overlapping chains of mutually recognized Grand Lodges, forming a Regular Masonic jurisdiction. For the most part these trace their descent from one of original British Grand Lodges, with mutual recognition based on adherence to certain core values, rules and membership requirements .  Different branches of Freemasonry  Freemasonry is often said to consist of two branches not in mutual regular amity: Anglo-American style, or Regular Freemasonry Continental style, or Liberal Freemasonry The majority of Masonic jurisdictions around the world follow the Anglo-American style. The United Grand Lodge of England lists 194 Grand Lodges which it considers to be Regular and the Grand Lodge of New York lists 202 which it considers to be Regular, while the umbrella organisation for Liberal Freemasonry, CLIPSAS, lists 90 members. The Anglo-American style is especially dominant in the United States, and the countries that once formed the British Empire. It has a minority presence in France and most Latin American countries. The Anglo-American branch has several noteworthy sub...
Kakinada Rural Assembly constituency is a constituency in Kakinada district of Andhra Pradesh that elects representatives to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly in India. It is one of the seven assembly segments of Kakinada Lok Sabha constituency. Pantham Venkateswara Rao is the current MLA of the constituency, having won the 2024 Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly election from YSRCP party. As of 2019, there are a total of 249,011 electors in the constituency. The constituency was established in 2008, as per the Delimitation Orders .  Mandals  The three mandals that form the assembly constituency.  Members of the Legislative Assembly   Election results   2009   2014   2019   2024   See also  List of constituencies of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly  References 
In software engineering, the servant pattern defines an object used to offer some functionality to a group of classes without defining that functionality in each of them. A Servant is a class whose instance provides methods that take care of a desired service, while objects for which the servant does something, are taken as parameters.  Description and simple example  Servant is used for providing some behavior to a group of classes. Instead of defining that behavior in each class - or when we cannot factor out this behavior in the common parent class - it is defined once in the Servant. For example: we have a few classes representing geometric objects . We can draw these objects on some canvas. When we need to provide a move method for these objects we could implement this method in each class, or we can define an interface they implement and then offer the move functionality in a servant. An interface is defined to ensure that serviced classes have methods that servant needs to provide desired behavior. If we continue in our example, we define an Interface Movable specifying that every class implementing...
Ballo del Granduca , SwWV 319, is a composition for solo keyboard instrument attributed to Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck.  History  The composition is based on the theme of a dance of 1589 entitled O che nuovo miracolo, an intermedio from the comedy Intermedi della Pellegrina, composed by Emilio de' Cavalieri on the occasion of the wedding of Ferdinando I de' Medici to Christina of Lorraine. The theme of the composition, later known as Aria di Fiorenza or Ballo del Granduca, quickly gained renown in Europe and became the basis for at least 128 other songs, contemporary and later. Inspired by this theme, several composers produced variations, including Adriano Banchieri, Giovanni Girolamo Kapsperger, and Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck. It is not clear, however, whether the variations on Ballo del Granduca attributed to Sweelinck are completely his work. Because some of his students, such as Samuel Scheidt, added variations to his different compositions Scheidt and Sweelinck, in Pavana Hispanica, combined a series of alternating variations, some scholars hypothesize that Sweelinck wrote parts of Ballo del Granduca, but Scheidt also contributed.  Structure... 
A semiconductor is a material with electrical conductivity between that of a conductor and an insulator. Its conductivity can be modified by adding impurities to its crystal structure. When two regions with different doping levels are present in the same crystal, they form a semiconductor junction. The term semiconductors is sometimes used to refer to semiconductor devices such as microchips and computer processors, which work using the physical properties of semiconductors. The behavior of charge carriers, which include electrons, ions, and electron holes, at these junctions is the basis of diodes, transistors, and most modern electronics. Some examples of semiconductors are silicon, germanium, gallium arsenide, and elements near the so-called metalloid staircase on the periodic table. After silicon, gallium arsenide is the second-most common semiconductor and is used in laser diodes, solar cells, microwave-frequency integrated circuits, and others. Silicon is a critical element for fabricating most electronic circuits. Semiconductor devices can display a range of different useful properties, such as passing current more easily in one direction than the other, showing...
In fluid dynamics, a wake may either be: the region of recirculating flow immediately behind a moving or stationary blunt body, caused by viscosity, which may be accompanied by flow separation and turbulence, or the wave pattern on the water surface downstream of an object in a flow, or produced by a moving object , caused by density differences of the fluids above and below the free surface and gravity .  Viscosity  The wake is the region of disturbed flow downstream of a solid body moving through a fluid, caused by the flow of the fluid around the body. For a blunt body in subsonic external flow, for example the Apollo or Orion capsules during descent and landing, the wake is massively separated and behind the body is a reverse flow region where the flow is moving toward the body. This phenomenon is often observed in wind tunnel testing of aircraft, and is especially important when parachute systems are involved, because unless the parachute lines extend the canopy beyond the reverse flow region, the chute can fail to inflate and thus collapse. Parachutes deployed into wakes suffer dynamic pressure deficits which reduce their...
Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck  German:  23 April 1858 - 4 October 1947 was a German theoretical physicist. Planck made many contributions to theoretical physics, primarily in his role as the originator of quantum theory and one of the founders of modern physics, which revolutionized understanding of atomic and subatomic processes. He is known for the Planck constant, h displaystyle h , which is of foundational importance for quantum physics, and which he used to derive a set of units, now called Planck units, expressed in terms of physical constants. The Planck relation, E h displaystyle h , states that the energy of a photon is proportional to its frequency. Planck was twice President of the Kaiser Wilhelm Society. In 1948 it was renamed the Max Planck Society, and today includes 83 institutions representing a wide range of scientific disciplines. He was awarded the 1918 Nobel Prize in Physics for the services he rendered to the advancement of physics by his discovery of energy quanta.  Early life and education  Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck was born on 23 April 1858...
Stephen Wolfram is a Judeo-British-American computer scientist, physicist, and businessman. He works in computer algebra and theoretical physics. In 2012, he was named a fellow of the American Mathematical Society. As a businessman, Wolfram is the founder and CEO of the software company Wolfram Research, where he works as chief designer of Mathematica and the Wolfram Alpha answer engine.  Early life   Family  Stephen Wolfram was born in London in 1959 to Hugo and Sybil Wolfram, both German Jewish refugees to the United Kingdom. His maternal grandmother was British psychoanalyst Kate Friedlander. Wolfram's father, Hugo Wolfram, was a textile manufacturer and served as managing director of the Lurex Company-makers of the fabric Lurex. Wolfram's mother, Sybil Wolfram, was a Fellow and Tutor in Philosophy at Lady Margaret Hall, a constituent college of the University of Oxford, from 1964 to 1993. Wolfram was married to mathematician Elise Cawley until her death in 2026. They have four children together: Alexander, Catherine, Christopher, and Elizabeth.  Education  Wolfram was educated at Eton College, but left prematurely in 1976. As a young...
In quantum field theory, a tadpole is a one-loop Feynman diagram with one external leg, giving a contribution to a one-point correlation function i.e., the field's vacuum expectation value. One-loop diagrams with a propagator that connects back to its originating vertex are often also referred as tadpoles. For many massless theories, these graphs vanish in dimensional regularization by dimensional analysis and the absence of any inherent mass scale in the loop integral. Tadpole corrections are needed if the corresponding external field has a non-zero vacuum expectation value, such as the Higgs field. Tadpole diagrams were first used in the 1960s. An early example was published by Abdus Salam in 1961, though he did not take credit for the name. Physicists Sidney Coleman and Sheldon Glashow made an influential use of tadpole diagrams to explain symmetry breaking in the strong interaction in 1964. In 1985 Coleman stated that Physical Review's editors rejected the originally proposed name spermion. In solid-state physics, specially when calculating properties of metals, the tadpole diagram is related to the Hartree energy term .  References 
The Feynman Lectures on Physics is a physics textbook based on a great number of lectures by Richard Feynman, a Nobel laureate who has sometimes been called The Great Explainer. The lectures were presented before undergraduate students at the California Institute of Technology , during 1961-1964. The book's co-authors are Feynman, Robert B. Leighton, and Matthew Sands. A 2013 review in Nature described the book as having simplicity, beauty, unity ... presented with enthusiasm and insight.  Description  The textbook comprises three volumes. The first volume focuses on mechanics, radiation, and heat, including relativistic effects. The second volume covers mainly electromagnetism and matter. The third volume covers quantum mechanics for example, it shows how the double-slit experiment demonstrates the essential features of quantum mechanics. The book also includes chapters on the relationship between mathematics and physics, and the relationship of physics to other sciences. In 2013, Caltech in cooperation with The Feynman Lectures Website made the book freely available, on the web site.  Background  By 1960, Richard Feynman's research and discoveries in physics...
Physics education research is a form of discipline-based education research specifically related to the study of the teaching and learning of physics, often with the aim of improving the effectiveness of student learning. PER draws from other disciplines, such as sociology, cognitive science, education and linguistics, and complements them by reflecting the disciplinary knowledge and practices of physics. Approximately eighty-five institutions in the United States conduct research in science and physics education.  Goals  One primary goal of PER is to develop pedagogical techniques and strategies that will help students learn physics more effectively and help instructors to implement these techniques. Because even basic ideas in physics can be confusing, together with the possibility of scientific misconceptions formed from teaching through analogies, lecturing often does not erase common misconceptions about physics that students acquire before they are taught physics. Research often focuses on learning more about common misconceptions that students bring to the physics classroom so that techniques can be devised to help students overcome these misconceptions. In most introductory...
Physics and Beyond: Encounters and Conversations German: Der Teil und das Ganze: Gesprche im Umkreis der Atomphysik, lit. 'The Part and the Whole: Conversations in the Field of Atomic Physics' is a book by Werner Heisenberg, the German physicist who discovered the uncertainty principle. It tells, from his point of view, the history of exploring atomic science and quantum mechanics in the first half of the 20th century. The subtitle is Encounters and Conversations, and the core of the book takes the form of reconstructed discussions between himself and other scientists. Heisenberg said: I wanted to show that science is done by people, and the most wonderful ideas come from dialog. Among the chapters are The first encounter with the science about atoms, Quantum mechanics and conversations with Einstein, Conversation about the relation between biology, physics and chemistry, Conversations about language and The behavior of an individual during a political disaster, dated 1937-1941. With other scientists, including Erwin Schrdinger, Niels Bohr, Albert Einstein and Max Planck, Heisenberg discussed physics and other questions related to biology, humans, philosophy, and...
A golden age of physics appears to have been delineated for certain periods of progress in the physics sciences, and this includes the previous and current developments of cosmology and astronomy. Each golden age introduces significant advancements in theoretical and experimental methods. Discernible time periods marking a golden age of advancements are, for example, the development of mechanics under Galileo and Isaac Newton . Another small epoch seen as a golden age is the unification of electricity, magnetism, and optics because of 19th century notables, including Michael Faraday, James Clerk Maxwell, and others. Significant advancements in methods of investigation were introduced for celestial mechanics, which includes realizing a universal gravitational force, with the introduction of the telescope. Basing mechanics on experimental results was possible with the development of devices that could measure time, and tools for measuring distance. The advances in electromagnetism in the 19th century enamored physicists, as another golden age closed, and there was a reluctance to perceive further advancement. Hence, the progress of one era, termed a golden...
Space is a three-dimensional continuum containing positions and directions. In classical physics, physical space is often conceived in three linear dimensions. Modern physicists usually consider it, with time, to be part of a boundless four-dimensional continuum known as spacetime. The concept of space is considered to be of fundamental importance to an understanding of the physical universe. However, disagreement continues between philosophers over whether it is itself an entity, a relationship between entities, or part of a conceptual framework. In the 19th and 20th centuries mathematicians began to examine geometries that are non-Euclidean, in which space is conceived as curved, rather than flat, as in the Euclidean space. According to Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity, space around gravitational fields deviates from Euclidean space. Experimental tests of general relativity have confirmed that non-Euclidean geometries provide a better model for the shape of space.  Philosophy of space  Debates concerning the nature, essence and the mode of existence of space date back to antiquity namely, to treatises like the Timaeus of Plato, or Socrates in his reflections on...
Physics Reports is a peer-reviewed scientific journal, a review section of Physics Letters that has been published by Elsevier since 1971. The journal publishes long and deep reviews on all aspects of physics. In average, the length of these reports is the same of a short book. These reports aim to make their main points intelligible to non-specialists.  References   External links  Official website
Solid-state physics is the study of rigid matter, or solids, through methods such as solid-state chemistry, quantum mechanics, crystallography, electromagnetism, and metallurgy. It is the largest branch of condensed matter physics. Solid-state physics studies how the large-scale properties of solid materials result from their atomic-scale properties. Thus, solid-state physics forms a theoretical basis of materials science. Along with solid-state chemistry, it also has direct applications in the technology of transistors and semiconductors.  Background  Solid materials are formed from densely packed atoms, which interact intensely. These interactions produce the mechanical , thermal, electrical, magnetic and optical properties of solids. Depending on the material involved and the conditions in which it was formed, the atoms may be arranged in a regular, geometric pattern crystalline solids, which include metals and ordinary water ice or irregularly an amorphous solid such as common window glass. The bulk of solid-state physics, as a general theory, is focused on crystals. Primarily, this is because the periodicity of atoms in a crystal - its defining...
Thiolases, are most broadly any enzyme that catalyze a reaction between a thiol and another compound to form a sulfide and a hydrogen-bound compound . However, in medicine, the term can also refer to a more specific type of enzyme known as acetyl-coenzyme A acetyltransferases , which convert two units of acetyl-CoA to acetoacetyl CoA in the mevalonate pathway. Thiolases are ubiquitous enzymes that have key roles in many vital biochemical pathways, including the beta oxidation pathway of fatty acid degradation and various biosynthetic pathways. Members of the thiolase family can be divided into two broad categories: degradative thiolases and biosynthetic thiolases . These two different types of thiolase are found both in eukaryotes and in prokaryotes: acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase and 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase . 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase has a broad chain-length specificity for its substrates and is involved in degradative pathways such as fatty acid beta-oxidation. Acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase is specific for the thiolysis of acetoacetyl-CoA and involved...
The Picatinny rail is an American rail integration system designed by Richard Swan that provides a mounting platform for firearm accessories. It forms part of the NATO standard STANAG 2324 rail. It was originally used for mounting of telescopic sights atop the receivers of larger caliber rifles. Once established as United States Military Standard, its use expanded to also attaching other accessories, such as: iron sights, tactical lights, laser sights, night-vision devices, reflex sights, holographic sights, foregrips, bipods, slings and bayonets. An updated version of the rail is adopted as a NATO standard as the STANAG 4694 NATO Accessory Rail.  History  Attempts to standardize the Weaver rail mount designs date from work by the A.R.M.S. company and Richard Swan in the early 1980s. Specifications for the M16A2E4 rifle and the M4E1 carbine received type classification generic in December 1994. These were the M16A2 and the M4 modified with new upper receivers where rails replaced hand guards. The MIL-STD-1913 rail is commonly called the Picatinny Rail, in reference to the Picatinny Arsenal in New Jersey. Picatinny Arsenal works as a contracting...
Earlsfield is an area within the London Borough of Wandsworth, London, England. It is a typical south London suburb and comprises mostly residential Victorian terraced houses with a high street of shops, bars, and restaurants between Garratt Lane, Allfarthing Lane, and Burntwood Lane. The population of Earlsfield at the 2011 Census was 15,500, increasing to 18,500 in 2022.  History  In medieval times, the area now known as Earlsfield was the northern part of the manor and hamlet of Garrat in the parish of Wandsworth and notorious in the 18th century for the Garrat mock elections. By then the area was already industrialised with numerous mills along the River Wandle and in the early 19th century London's first railway, the horse-drawn Surrey Iron Railway, ran along Garratt Lane. This was followed in 1838 by the opening of the London and South Western Railway which originally passed through without stopping. Later in the century, suburban development began to creep across from Wandsworth Common. In April 1884, the London and South Western Railway opened Earlsfield station on Garratt Lane, prompting further development. The station was named...
Florian Klein is an Austrian former professional footballer who played as a defender.  Club career  Klein began his career in September 1994 in the youth team of LASK Linz and was promoted to the senior team in July 2004. He played on loan for FC Blau-Wei Linz in the 2003-04 season and returned to Linz after the end of the season. After 163 games in 14 years for the club, in which he scored 13 goals, Klein signed a two-year contract with Austria Wien on 30 April 2009. In 2012, he joined Red Bull Salzburg. After the end of his contract with Salzburg on 1 July 2014, Klein moved to VfB Stuttgart on a free transfer. On 6 May 2014, he signed a contract until June 2017 with the club. He returned to Austria Wien on 23 August 2017.  International career  Klein has played for Austria under-19 and Austria under-21. On 19 May 2010, Klein made his debut for the Austria against Croatia. He represented the national team at 2016 UEFA Euro.  Career statistics  As of 1 July 2019  Honours  Red Bull Salzburg Austrian Bundesliga: 2013-14 Austrian Cup: 2013-14  References 
Steel Rain 2: Summit Korean: 2:  RR: Gangcheolbi2: jeongsanghoedam is a 2020 South Korean action thriller film written and directed by Yang Woo-suk. It is a standalone sequel to the 2017 film Steel Rain. In the film, three leaders each from South Korea, North Korea, and the United States are kidnapped and held in a North Korean nuclear submarine during a summit between the two Koreas and the United States. It stars Jung Woo-sung as the South Korean president, Kwak Do-won as the North Korean Supreme Guard Command chief, Yoo Yeon-seok as the North Korean supreme leader and Angus Macfadyen as the United States president. The film was theatrically released in South Korea on 29 July 2020.  Plot  A secret meeting at sea takes place between Song Shikai, director of China's Ministry of State Security , and Shinzo Mori, director of the Yamato Foundation, an influential Japanese ultranationalist organization. Mori shows Song a plan called Operation Kagemusha, a US scheme to impose regime change on China through a false flag attack on a Japanese submarine at the disputed Senkaku Islands. However, Mori also shows Song an altered version of the plan that involves Dokdo instead...
County Bridge No. 148 is a historic stone arch bridge located on the border of Westtown Township and Thornbury Township in Chester County, Pennsylvania. It spans a branch of Chester Creek. It has a single span measuring 36 feet long. The bridge was constructed in 1911, of coursed roughly square stone in a camelback shape. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.  References 
Amphidromus filozonatus is a species of medium-sized air-breathing tree snail, an arboreal gastropod mollusk in the family Camaenidae. Subspecies Amphidromus filozonatus filozonatus Amphidromus filozonatus jucundus Fulton, 1896 Smaller than typical filozonatus, the shell appears rather more solid. The body whorl exhibits a grayish-brown color with a yellow band around its lower part, while the upper whorls are white with dark brown stripes that are interrupted by a narrow pale yellow band.  Description  The length of the shell attains 35 mm, its diameter 17 mm. The sinistral shell is elongate-conical. It presents a somewhat solid structure and a slightly finely striated, glossy surface. The body whorl displays a grayish-brown coloration, adorned with narrow whitish bands . All the upper whorls appear yellowish-whitish, exhibiting blackish, somewhat rhombic spots that are interrupted by a band, with the uppermost whorls being white and the very apex black. The aperture is oblong-ovate, angled below, and brown on the inside, occupying about 25 of the shell's length. The peristome feels somewhat...
Florian Krebs is a German professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Bulgarian First League club CSKA 1948 Sofia.  Career   Youth career  Krebs played for BFC Alemannia 90 in his hometown Berlin and was subsequently admitted to the youth team of Bundesliga club Hertha BSC. In the 2017-18 season, Krebs became the captain of the under-19 team, playing in 24 matches and scoring 13 goals. After a victory over Schalke 04 II, he won the Under 19 Bundesliga with the team.  Hertha Berlin II  Krebs scored 3 goals in 26 competitive matches in his first year of being professional with Hertha BSC II.  Chemnitzer FC  From August 2019, Krebs suffered from an ankle injury until the end of the first half of the season and was then signed during the winter break by 3. Liga club Chemnitzer FC, with whom he signed a contract that was valid until the end of the season. He debuted in matchday 29 of the 2019-20 3. Liga season, in a 1-0 defeat against Sonnenhof Groaspach, coming on in the 71st minute for Tarsis Bonga. He appeared in the starting lineup in a 2-1 defeat at MSV Duisburg, playing for 52 minutes until being replaced by Bonga. ...
The R564 is a Regional Route in the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality in Gauteng, South Africa. It connects Roodepoort with Buccleuch via Northriding and Fourways.  Route  Its south-western end is a junction with the R41 in Roodepoort, in the southern part of the Florida suburb. It goes northwards through Florida as Westlake Road, meeting the R24 at the next junction and bypassing Florida Lake, to reach a junction with Clarendon Drive, where it becomes Clarendon Drive westwards. At the next junction, it becomes Christiaan De Wet Drive northwards. It runs north as Christiaan De Wet Drive, meeting the M18 just after Florida Park and meeting the M86 at Kloofendal, to form an interchange with the M47 at Allen's Nek. It continues north-north-east through the suburbs of Weltevredenpark and Radiokop, where it meets the M6 , to exit Roodepoort and enter the northern suburbs of Randburg and Sandton. It crosses Johannesburg's M5 road at Honeydew. Here, it becomes known as Northumberland Avenue and heads north-east through the suburbs of Sundowner...
Prime Minister  I is a 2013 South Korean television drama starring Im Yoon-ah, Lee Beom-soo, Yoon Shi-yoon, Chae Jung-an and Ryu Jin. It aired on KBS2 from December 9, 2013 to February 4, 2014 on Mondays and Tuesdays at 22:00 for 17 episodes.  Plot  At 42 years old, Kwon Yul is South Korea's youngest prime minister ever. On top of his reputation as an honest man of the utmost integrity, he's also a widower as his wife died in a car accident 7 years ago and raises his three children alone. But what the public doesn't know is that despite his perfect image, Yul is actually a struggling father devoid of even the most basic of parenting skills. Nam Da-jung is a journalist from Scandal News who resorts to writing for a trashy tabloid to support her ailing father, but when she chases Prime Minister Kwon for a lucrative expos, she ends up scooping a whole lot more than she bargained for and the two ended up in a contract marriage and later on fell in love with each other.  Cast   Main characters  Im Yoon-ah as Nam Da-jung Nam Da-jung is a 28-year-old tabloid reporter. She has been working for her paper for three years...
A number of steamships have been named Alster, including - SS Alster , 806 GRT, built by S P Austin  Son, Sunderland. SS Alster , 573 GRT, built by Joh. C. Tecklenborg, Wesermnde SS Alster , 997 GRT, built by Reihersteig Schiffswerke, Hamburg SS Alster , 8,514 GRT, built by Deutsche Werft, Hamburg SS Alster , 299 GRT, built by Denny  Rankine, Dumbarton, Scotland
Cryptocteniza is a monotypic genus of North American mygalomorph spiders in the family Euctenizidae containing the single species, Cryptocteniza kawtak. It was first described by Jason Bond, C. A. Hamilton and R. L. Godwin in 2020, and it has only been found in the United States.  References 
The K70277028 Harbin-Mishan through train is a Chinese railway running between Harbin to Mishan express passenger trains by the Harbin Railway Bureau, Harbin passenger segment responsible for passenger transport task, Habin originating on the Mishan train. 25G Type Passenger trains running along the Binsui Railway, Tujia Railway and Lindong Railway across Heilongjiang provinces, the entire 645 km. Harbin East Railway Station to Mishan Railway Station running 10 hours and 59 minutes, use trips for K7027 Mishan Railway Station to Harbin East Railway Station to run 10 hours and 21 minutes, use trips for K7028.  References 
Gnaeus Octavius was a Roman politician and general who served as consul in 165 BC and was the builder of the Porticus Octavia.  Family background  Octavius belonged to the plebeian gens Octavia, which had emerged in the middle of the 3rd century. Its first attested member was a Gaius Octavius Rufus, whose two sons founded the two branches of the gens, but the second one, to which later belonged Octavian , received much less honours during the Republic. The elder branch shows a progression in the cursus honorum: Octavius' grandfather Gnaeus Octavius was aedile curule and his father Gnaeus Octavius was praetor in 205. The latter notably fought at Cannae in 216 and commanded the fleet from his praetorship to the end of the Second Punic War in 202. He then participated in several diplomatic delegations in the Greek East: first with Flamininus in Macedonia in 197, then to refound Croton as a colony with Aemilius Paullus in 194, and again with Flamininus as legate in 192 at the beginning of the Syrian War. It seems Octavius' father was chosen for his expert knowledge of Greek culture. He probably died c.190, aged about 55.  Career... 
Juan Damin Lpez de Haro y Villarda, O.SS.T. was a Spanish Catholic prelate who served as Bishop of Puerto Rico from 1643 to 1648. He was member of the House of Haro and the Order of the Most Holy Trinity. He is known for expressing his disillusionment concerning Puerto Rico's dilapidated colony status, and for his poems written to Spanish officials.  Early years  Lpez de Haro was born in Toledo, Spain on September 27, 1581, where he was baptized on the same day. He enrolled in Religious studies in 1599, majoring in philosophy at the convent in Toledo. He later majored in Theology continuing his studies in Salamanca.  Bishop of Puerto Rico  Lpez de Haro was appointed Bishop of Puerto Rico on February 9, 1643, confirmed on June 13, ordained as bishop by Garca Gil Manrique, Bishop of Barcelona on February 14, 1644, and installed upon his arrival to Puerto Rico on July 13, 1644. Upon his arrival, Lpez de Haro began to express his overall dislike with the conditions of the Colony of Puerto Rico at that time and convened a Synod. In his final years as Bishop, Lpez de Haro began visiting annexed regions of the diocese in what is now Venezuela...
Kyle Cheney is a former Australian rules football player who played with the Melbourne Football Club, Hawthorn Football Club, and Adelaide Football Club in the Australian Football League. Cheney was recruited from the North Ballarat Rebels by Melbourne with pick 53 in the 2007 National Draft after finishing second in Rebels' best and fairest count that year. He was traded to Hawthorn after the 2010 season, and then to Adelaide at the end of 2014.  AFL career   Melbourne  Cheney played the whole 2008 season for Sandringham in the VFL. He made his AFL debut in the first round of the 2009 season, and was among his side's best in a 34-point loss to North Melbourne. He played 12 matches for Melbourne in 2009 but only two in 2010, playing the rest of the season with the Casey Scorpions and winning their player of the year award that year. At the end of the 2010 season, Cheney was traded to Hawthorn along with pick 66 for pick 52. He played his last game for Melbourne after being traded, an exhibition match against the Brisbane Lions in China.  Hawthorn  Cheney played his first game for Hawthorn midway through 2011, against...
Komyshne Ukrainian:  Russian:  Crimean Tatar: Rus Kp Qar, is a village located on the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Ukraine. Along with the rest of the Crimean peninsula, the settlement is subject to an ongoing territorial dispute between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which was triggered by a swift Russian military invasion in early 2014, which resulted in the full Russian occupation and subsequent unilateral annexation of the region, after Russian-installed authorities conducted a referendum, which is widely considered described to be sham vote.  History  The village, which was initially documented as a place of settlement of Crimean Tatars, was first mentioned in documents dating back to 1784. Following the exodus of the Crimean Tatar population in the 19th century, which was a result of the Crimean War, Crimea German settlers reestablished the settlement, who were replaced by Slavic and Armenian settlers after the establishment of the Soviet Union. During World War II, along with the rest of Crimea, the village came under German occupation. On 12 April, 1944, the German troops carried out a massacre in village, in which parts of the...
The Old Homestead is a 1942 American comedy film directed by Frank McDonald and written by Dorrell McGowan and Stuart E. McGowan. The film stars the vaudeville comedy troupe the Weaver Brothers and Elviry, with Dick Purcell, Jed Prouty and Anne Jeffreys. The film was released on August 17, 1942, by Republic Pictures.  Plot   Cast  Leon Weaver as Abner Weaver Frank Weaver as Cicero Weaver June Weaver as Mayor Elviry Weaver Dick Purcell as Scarf Lennin Jed Prouty as Councilman Bell Anne Jeffreys as Goldie Maris Wrixon as Mary Jo Weaver Robert Conway as Fred Morgan Linda Bent as Bunny  References   External links  The Old Homestead at IMDb
Spencer Bell was an American stage and film actor, best known for playing opposite Larry Semon in many of his silent comedy shorts from the late 1910s to 1928. Bell was one of the first African American comedic actors of the silent film era, and was the first to be signed to film contract. Over the course of his fifteen-year film career, Bell appeared in more than seventy comedy shorts.  Career  Bell was born in Lexington, Kentucky. Prior to his Hollywood film career, he worked as a chauffeur and performed in vaudeville and minstrel shows. He enlisted in the United States Army and served in World War I. Bell made his film debut in Larry Semon's 1919 silent comedy short, Passing the Buck. As was typical for African American actors of the era, Bell was typecast in stereotypical roles. His characters were often depicted as bumbling, lazy buffoons who were prone to comedic accidents. During the 1930s, Bell regularly appeared in the Mickey McGuire film series starring Mickey Rooney, and briefly ran an acting troupe in Harlem. Bell's final film appearance was in the 1934 comedy short Mickey's Medicine Man.  Death  On August 18, 1935, Bell died...
Judaism as a Civilization: Toward a Reconstruction of American-Jewish Life is a 1934 work on Judaism and American Jewish life by Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, the founder of Reconstructionist Judaism. The book is Kaplan's most notable work and has influenced a number of American Jewish thinkers. Kaplan's work centers around the concept that Judaism ought not to be defined as the religion of the Jews, but the sum of Jewish religion, culture, language, literature and social organization.  Background  In 1934, Kaplan published Judaism as a Civilization, a seminal work that eventually provided the theological foundation for the new Reconstructionist movement. Kaplan was deeply influenced by the new field of sociology and its definition of civilization as characterized not only by beliefs and rituals, but also by art, culture, ethics, history, language, literature, social organization, symbols, and local customs. Kaplan argued that Judaism is, in essence, a religious civilization its religious elements are primarily human, naturalistic expressions of a specific culture. Kaplan felt that Jewish group survival in the United States depended on Jews reconstructing their lives on the cultural...
Civilization Phaze III is the sixty-third album by Frank Zappa, released posthumously as a double album on October 31, 1994. It was the first studio album of new material from Zappa since 1986's Jazz from Hell. The album marks the third part of a conceptual continuity that started with We're Only in It for the Money , with the second part being the 1968 re-edited version of Lumpy Gravy. Zappa described the album as a two-act opera, but in lieu of traditional recitatives and arias, it alternates brief spoken word passages with musical numbers created on a Synclavier using a combination of sampled and synthesized sounds. Much of the sampled material in the second half of the album was originally recorded by Ensemble Modern and other musicians to Zappa's specifications. The storyline of Civilization Phaze III involves a group of people living inside a piano, and the menacing reality of the outside world. The album's themes include personal isolation and nationalism. Much of the album's improvised dialogue was originally recorded as part of sessions which produced We're Only in It for the Money and Uncle Meat, which contained some dialogue by the same speakers, and some of the dialogue...
Sid Meier's Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword is the second expansion pack of the turn-based strategy video game Civilization IV. The expansion focuses on adding content to the in-game time periods following the invention of gunpowder, and includes more general content such as 11 new scenarios, 10 new civilizations, and 16 new leaders.  Gameplay  Beyond the Sword offers several new features: Corporations: A new gameplay feature, similar to the religion feature, allows players to create corporations and spread them throughout the world. Each corporation provides benefits in exchange for certain resources. Espionage: Now available much earlier in the game, this expanded feature offers players many new ways to spy on opponents, stir citizen unrest and defend their government's secrets. Random Events: New random events such as natural disasters, pleas for help, and demands from their citizens will challenge players to overcome obstacles in order for their civilizations to prosper. Random events can also be beneficial, such as scientific breakthroughs and incidents that improve relations with a neighbor. Advanced Starts: When starting the game in any era, this new option allows the...
Firaxis Games is an American video game developer based in Sparks, Maryland. It was founded in May 1996 by Sid Meier, Jeff Briggs and Brian Reynolds as Firaxis Software, following their departure from MicroProse, which Meier had co-founded. The company was renamed to Firaxis Games in July 1997 prior to releasing any titles. It produced seven games primarily for Microsoft Windows personal computers over the next nine years through multiple publishers these games include wargames such as their first title, Sid Meier's Gettysburg! , and 4 turn-based strategy games, all with the prefix Sid Meier's in their official titles. Three of the games were part of the company's flagship Civilization series of 4 games, which was originally begun by Meier at MicroProse. In November 2004, Take-Two Interactive purchased the publishing rights to the series from then-rights holder Infogrames, and a year later in November 2005, after the release of Civilization IV, acquired Firaxis. It became part of the publisher's 2K Games label, and has published exclusively through them since. Since 2005, Firaxis has released ten further titles related to the Civilization series, primarily 4 games. The other...
Technics and Civilization is a 1934 book by American philosopher and historian of technology Lewis Mumford. The book presents the history of technology and its role in shaping and being shaped by civilizations. According to Mumford, modern technology has its roots in the Middle Ages rather than in the Industrial Revolution. It is the moral, economic, and political choices we make, not the machines we use, Mumford argues, that have produced a capitalist industrialized machine-oriented economy, whose imperfect fruits serve the majority so imperfectly.  Background  Apart from its significance as a monumental work of scholarship in several disciplines, Mumford explicitly positioned the book as a call-to-action for the human race to consider its options in the face of the threats to its survival posed by possible ecological catastrophe or industrialised warfare. Technics and Civilization is the first book in Mumford's four-volume Renewal of Life series, followed by The Culture of Cities , The Condition of Man , and The Conduct of Life .  Synopsis  Mumford divides the development of technology into three overlapping phases: eotechnic Greek, eos meaning dawn...
Civilization, and Its Part in My Downfall is a novel by Canadian writer Paul Quarrington, published in 1994 by Random House Canada. Set during the early days of the film industry in Hollywood, the novel centres on Thom Moss, a onetime silent film star who is now in prison and is writing his personal account of his rise and fall. Characters who play a role in his story include J.D.D. Jensen, a Western fiction author who first introduces him to the film industry Caspar Willison, a D. W. Griffith-like film director who first makes Moss a star but ultimately destroys him by refusing to give him a role in the planned epic film Civilization Jefferson Foote, Willison's one-armed screenwriter and Moss's best friend in the industry and Thespa Doone, Moss's frequent costar and love interest. Although favourably reviewed by critics, the novel sold poorly, which pushed Quarrington to concentrate more actively on film and television writing.  References 
Soviet Civilization is a 2001 collection of writings by Russian author Sergei Kara-Murza. The book was a bestseller. The book was included by Eksmo Publishing House in the book series Classics of Russian Thought.  Description  The author's opus magnum, the book has gone through several reprints. The author himself considered it his best work. The book is permeated with anti-Western sentiments and bitterness over the collapse of the Soviet order. The author speaks highly of the Soviet Union. The author criticizes elements of Eurocentrism in Lenin's thought.  Criticism  The book was criticized by Mikhail Veller, calling it a lie.  Influence  This and his other book, Manipulation of Consciousness, influenced the writer Zakhar Prilepin.  Notes 
The Civilization and Barbarism was a dichotomy used during the Argentine Civil War by the Unitarian Party. The dichotomy can be found in books such as Facundo, by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, or The New Troy by the contemporary French Alexandre Dumas, who wrote it based on reports by the Unitarian Melchor Pacheco. In this dichotomy, civilization makes reference to the values and ideas of Europe, and barbarism to the rejection of them. Unitarians thought that Buenos Aires should impose those values to the other regions of the country. The Federal party thought instead that the country should follow its own traditions and develop their own political systems, allowing autonomy to each region. Various groups of European immigrants also embraced the concept of bringing civilization and uplifting Argentina as a way to carve out a place for themselves in the new society.  See also  Argentine Civil War  References 
Penelope Spheeris is an American filmmaker. Her best-known works include The Decline of Western Civilization trilogy of music documentaries , each covering an aspect of Los Angeles underground culture, and has been referred to as a rock 'n roll anthropologist. She is also known for directing the comedy films Wayne's World , Dudes and The Beverly Hillbillies .  Early life  Spheeris was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Her Greek-immigrant father owned the Magic Empire Shows carnival and was a side-show strong man. Her mother, of Irish heritage, was raised in Kansas and later worked as a ticket taker for the carnival. Her father was 40 years old and her mother was 19 when they began a relationship. Spheeris has three full siblings, plus a number of older half-siblings from her father's first marriage. She is a sister of singer Jimmie Spheeris and a first cousin of musician Chris Spheeris and Greek-French film director Costa Gavras, which she says has made her consider that a genetic component exists to her vocation. Spheeris told author Paul Stenning, I believe each of us is born with certain characteristics...
Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization is a board game for 2-4 players designed by Vlaada Chvatil and published by Czech Board Games in 2006. Its theme is the development of human civilization and the players determine the progress of their own civilization in different fields including culture, government, leadership, religion and science. The game won multiple awards including the International Gamers Awards in 2007 and Game of the Year in Poland in 2010, where it was published as Cywilizacja: Poprzez Wieki. The game is about building a civilization, including urban buildings, governments, population, resource productions, military etc. By drawing and buying cards the players take their civilizations through 4 ages - beginning with classical antiquity and ending in the Modern Age. The game has spent over 5 years ranked in the top five board games at Board Game Geek. In 2015 an updated version, entitled Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization, was published with updated artwork and with a number of rule tweaks. In 2017 an app version was announced and released on 14 September for Android, iPhone and iPad. This version was nominated for the A-Train Award for Best Mobile Game...
The Huastec civilization was a pre-Columbian civilization of Mesoamerica, occupying a territory on the Gulf coast of Mexico that included the northern portion of Veracruz state, and neighbouring regions of the states of Hidalgo, Quertaro, San Luis Potos, and Tamaulipas. The Huastec people were an early offshoot of the Maya peoples that migrated northwards. Surviving remains from the Huastec civilization include several large archaeological sites, a well-preserved temple, and a large amount of stone sculpture. By the Late Postclassic , the Huastecs had developed metallurgy and were producing copper alloys. The Aztec Empire conquered the Huastec region around the 15th century, and probably demanded tribute payments.  Culture  The Huastec civilization is poorly studied, although there is a large body of stone sculpture, and a well-preserved Late Postclassic temple at Castillo de Teayo. In the Late Postclassic, the Huastec region was a centre for metallurgy that included the production of copper alloys. The Huastec region was conquered by the Aztecs, probably in the 15th century, and it is likely that the Huastecs paid tribute...
Express Zip File Compression Software is a file compression and archiving software program developed by NCH Software for Windows and Mac OS first released in 2010. It offers the ability to open, manage, archive, extract, and compress digital documents into .zip, .tar, .tgz, .wim, .arj, and .lzh as well as additional archive formats. It also supports file zipping and unzipping, file compression, sending compressed files as attachments via email, and backing up files by burning them to compatible discs . Currently, the most popular version of Express Zip is version 2.28, which is installed across more than half of the user base. Most users are located in the United States, but it also has some presence in various countries across Europe and other regions.  Features  Express Zip can open existing archive files, create new archives, add files or folders to an archive, remove files from an archive, open selected files, and convert existing archives into other archive file types. It can also be used to manage zip files by editing or moving their contents, adding password protection, or encryption. Express Zip includes the ability to convert archives from other formats to ZIP as...
Pawno is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Murowana Golina, within Pozna County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. Pawno is situated within the Puszcza Zielonka forest and landscape park. It lies to the east of the village of Kamisko and belongs to Kamisko soectwo. Further to the east are a series of lakes and two nature reserves. It has an approximate population of 75.  References 
Ullaskar Dutta was an Indian revolutionary associated with Anushilan Samiti and Jugantar of Bengal, and was a close associate of Barindra Ghosh. He was the principal bomb maker of the Jugantar group until Hemchandra Kanungo returned from Paris learning political theory and explosive chemistry.  Early life  Ullaskar was born on 16 April 1885 to a Bengali Baidya family in the village of Kalikachha, Sarail, then located under the Brahmanbaria subdivision of the Bengal Province's Tipperah District . His father Dwijadas Duttagupta was a member of the Brahmo Samaj and had a degree in agriculture from the University of London. After passing entrance examination in 1903, he took admission in the Presidency College, Kolkata and his passion was for the subject Chemistry. However, he was rusticated from the college for hitting a British professor, Professor Russell, who made some derogatory comment about Bengalis.  Revolutionary activities  Ullaskar was a member of the Jugantar party and he became expert in bomb-making. Khudiram Bose used a bomb manufactured by Ullaskar and Hem Chandra Das in an attempt to murder the notorious magistrate...
Shady Said Omar is an Egyptian American professional soccer player who plays as a forward.  Early life and youth career  From East Lansing, Michigan, Omar displayed strong talent in soccer early on, playing for Haslett High School in Michigan, where he scored 80 goals over four years. During his youth career, he also played for the Michigan Wolves.  College career  After high school, Omar attended Eastern Illinois University from 2017 to 2021. During his time with the Eastern Illinois Panthers, he emerged as a key player, known for his leadership, resilience, and significant contributions on the field. Shady Omar suffered an injury early in his final season at EIU.  Professional career   Ittihad El Shorta  Began competing for the Under-21's, was shortly promoted to the senior team, gaining experience in the Egyptian Premier League. Omar had an early professional stint with Ittihad El Shorta in the Egyptian Premier League, where he gained valuable experience in domestic competition.  Lansing Common FC  After graduating, Omar joined Lansing Common FC in 2021, his goal-scoring abilities and energetic playing style...
Johanna Kustannus Oy has been the name of two Finnish record labels. Atte Blom has been a founding member for both companies, and Pekka Aarnio has also been involved with both. The first company using the name used the sublabel Johanna, while the second one used Pyramid and Megamania.  The first Johanna Kustannus Oy  The first Johanna Publishing started in 1978 with the publication of Juice Leskinen's, Dave Lindholm's and Kari Peitsamo's lyrics books. When Love Records went bankrupt in 1979, Johanna Kustannus began publishing records. A majority of the bands signed with Love Records transferred over to Johanna Kustannus. At first the company's name was Musiikki- ja kirjatoimisto P. Karhu, and the company also made a few releases under the sublabel Karhu. The first single released under the label Johanna was Lontoon skidit by Ratsia, and the first album Kohdusta hautaan by Tuomari Nurmio ja Kyhien Ystvt. At this time Johanna's releases were being published by Love Kustannus Oy. Johanna Kustannus began publishing its releases in 1981, and in 1982 the company was renamed to Johanna Kustannus Oy. Johanna Records released approximately 40 records in...
Rushcliffe was a wapentake administrative area, equivalent to a hundred of the historic county of Nottinghamshire, England. It was in the south of the county, on the south side of the River Trent, covering the parishes of Barton in Fabis, Bradmore, Bunny, Clifton with Glapton, Costock, East Leake, Edwalton, Gotham, Keyworth, Kingston on Soar, Normanton on Soar, Plumtree, Ratcliffe on Soar, Rempstone, Ruddington, Stanford on Soar, Stanton-on-the-Wolds, Sutton Bonington, Thorpe in the Glebe, Thrumpton, West Leake, Widmerpool, Wilford, Willoughby on the Wolds and Wysall. Contained within the boundaries of the wapentake is the western part of the current Rushcliffe borough and a small area of the City of Nottingham around Clifton.  Etymology  Rushcliffe means cliff where brushwood grows, from Old English hris brushwood and clif cliff. The name was recorded as Riselclif in an undated source.  References  Rushcliffe Wapentake at Vision of Britain
Bloodshot is the 17th studio release, and 15th full-length studio album, by alternative rock band the Choir, released in 2018. This was the final studio album to feature bass guitarist Tim Chandler, who died in October that same year.  Background  The four years that followed the release of Shadow Weaver were a tumultuous period for the band, particularly for lead singer and guitarist Derri Daugherty and drummer and lyricist Steve Hindalong. Daugherty temporarily relocated from Nashville, Tennessee to Cerritos, California, to take care of his ailing father until his death in 2017. Hindalong's 34-year marriage, frequently addressed in many of the band's songs, finally ended in divorce. Guitarist Marc Byrd and his wife Christine Glass Byrd, the latter of whom provided background vocals on several of the Choir's studio albums, left the band permanently. And bassist Tim Chandler's health began to decline, and he died just four months after the release of this album. Despite their personal turmoil, Daugherty and Hindalong were highly productive during this period. Daugherty recorded two new solo albums, Hush Sorrow and The Color of Dreams . In addition, he re-released the...
Edward Merrill Root was an American educator and poet devoted to anti-communist causes.  Biography  Root was born in Baltimore, Maryland, the son of a Congregationalist Church minister. In 1917, he graduated from Amherst College in Amherst, Massachusetts, where he studied under Robert Frost. Root was a conscientious objector during World War I. He went to France with the American Friends Service Committee, saw action as an ambulance driver and returned to the United States to study at Andover Theological Seminary, the University of Missouri, and Harvard. In 1920, he began working at Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana, as a professor of English literature, where his tenure lasted until his retirement in 1960. While working at Earlham, Root, who had been a devout Quaker and pacifist, emerged as a conservative advocate. In 1952, Root wrote Darkness at Noon in American Colleges, an article warning parents of the polio of collectivism at American colleges and universities. He then wrote the book Collectivism on the Campus, alleging communism was widespread at colleges, and a few years later, Brainwashing in the High Schools: An Examination...
Ectyphinae is a subfamily of mydas flies in the family Mydidae. There are at least four genera in Ectyphinae.  Genera  These genera belong to the subfamily Ectyphinae: Ectyphus Gerstaecker, 1868 Heteromydas Hardy, 1945 Opomydas Curran, 1934 Parectyphus Hesse, 1972  References   Further reading 
Calfskin or calf leather is a leather or membrane produced from the hide of a calf, or juvenile domestic cattle. Calfskin is particularly valuable because of its softness and fine grain, as well as durability. It is commonly used for high-quality clothing, shoes, wallets, and similar products, as well as traditional leather bookbindings. In these contexts, just calf is commonly used. Fine calfskin is one of the skins used for vellum and parchment manuscripts. In Spanish, the word is TerneraNovillo, referring to leather from animals less than three years old. Chickenskin, despite its name, is a form of calfskin made using the skin of unborn calves. In fashion, soft finished calfskin is sometimes described as veau velours .  See also  Goldbeater's skin, made from the intestine of a calf Sheepskin  References 
Ruth Ottman Riddle is a Canadian Branch Davidian and survivor of the Waco siege. Riddle was raised in the Seventh-day Adventist Church. She was born as Ruth Ellen Ottman. Riddle was one of nine survivors of the 19 April 1993 fire that destroyed the Mount Carmel Center and most of its occupants. She carried with her after leaving the compound a copy of David Koresh's final incomplete manuscript which after creating he agreed to leave. It was reprinted in James D. Tabor and Eugene V. Gallagher's book Why Waco?: Cults and the Battle for Religious Freedom in America. She was married to another Branch Davidian, James Loyle Riddle, who died in the 19 April 1993 fire. Her niece, Misty Dawn Ferguson, survived the fire as well. She was formerly of Tweed, Ontario. However, other sources indicate she is from Oshawa, Ontario.  Waco siege and survival  During the Waco siege, Koresh announced that he would surrender to the FBI after making a manuscript of his interpretation of the seven seals in the Book of Revelation. Ruth Riddle typed out an incomplete manuscript on a battery-powered word processor just before the 19 April 1993 fire. Riddle reportedly jumped from a second...
Phyllodes consobrina is a noctuoid moth in the family Erebidae and subfamily Calpinae. It was first described by John O. Westwood in 1848. The species can be found in Asia, including Thailand, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, the Andamans and India.  Description  The wingspan is 124-142 mm. Palpi with second joint fringed with very long hair in front, producing a rounded form. Third joint long, oblique and knobbed at extremity. Forewings with produced apex to an acute point. Head and thorax fuscous, with a purple bloom. Abdomen bluish black. Forewings with fuscous brown with a purplish gloss and irrorated with ochreous scales. Orbicular is a brown speck. There is an S-shaped brown mark found on the discocellulars, where its center is outlined with reddish brown. Its edges are brown, and two white marks can be seen on it near its lower angle. An oblique ochreous fascia runs from apex to below angle of cell, where it is bent down to inner margin. A large greyish-brown patch is usually present between the fascia and outer angle, with pale striae on it. Hindwings are bluish black. A large crimson patch is found with white center at anal angle. Ventral side is with white striations...
Juan Vicente Torrealba was a Venezuelan harpist and composer of popular music.  Life  In 1947, he founded the group Los Torrealberos with his brother Arturo and his son Santana, playing with passion and rich nuances the traditional music of the plains, which is distinguished by feeding on the experiences of the peasants, the cattle-raising tasks, the singing of the birds, the melody of the rivers and the trot of the horses. The following year he launched his solo career and performed before crowds in Latin America, Europe and the United States. In 1971, the recording of the album Rhapsody Llanera was key in his career, in which his group was accompanied by a symphony orchestra. Since then the incorporation of the most varied instruments and technical elements was a constant and turned his group into a kind of chamber orchestra. La fillo zaina - created in honor of his wife Mirta Pantoja - inspired and gave musical framework to one of the most successful telenovelas in Colombia, in 1993, written by Bernardo Romero Pereiro and starring Aura Cristina Geithner and Miguel Varoni. Torrealba recorded 130 albums and composed more than 300 songs such...
Rodger Stevens is a contemporary American artist. Stevens graduated from the Poly Prep Country Day School in Brooklyn and went on to study economics at Manhattanville College in Purchase, New York, and at Pace University in Manhattan. Stevens then attended Parsons The New School for Design and the School of Visual Arts. From 1994 through 1999, he worked at Sotheby's in New York. In the early nineties he began exhibiting his drawings and sculptures at small galleries throughout New York and eventually in more renowned venues such as the Tiffany  Co. windows, the MTV headquarters, the Todd Oldham boutique and the Yohji Yamamoto showroom in SoHo. In recent years he has done commissioned work for the Whitney Museum of American Art, the American Folk Art Museum, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Barneys, West Elm, The New York Times, Stuart Weitzman, the Rockwell Group, Jonathan Adler, Starbucks, the W Hotel, One Medical, The Advisory Board, and others. In 2011, he was selected by the Persol eyewear company to be a member of their Work of Persol artist series. Stevens continues to exhibit internationally, California, and elsewhere. His work has been featured in numerous publications...
Rachel Bright is an English actress, known for playing Poppy Meadow in the BBC soap opera EastEnders.  Career  Bright was introduced as Poppy Meadow on the BBC soap opera EastEnders in two episodes on 11 and 13 January 2011, in scenes which were substituted for scenes cut from the controversial baby swap storyline, in which Ronnie Branning's son, James, dies of sudden infant death syndrome and she secretly swaps him with Kat Moon's son, Tommy. A spokeswoman for EastEnders confirmed that the scenes had been edited following viewers' strong response to the story, but said that no complete scenes were removed: Given the audience response to this storyline, we felt on this occasion that it was appropriate to respond and make some changes. The vast majority of material remains intact and we don't believe that those trims we have made will weaken or detract from the overall storyline for viewers. In an interview with the Daily Mirror, Bright stated that her first scene was her favourite throughout her tenure, as all could think was, 'I'm sitting on a bench in the Square!'. Kylie Babbington, who played Jodie Gold, revealed in May 2011 that Poppy...
The Macedonian Renaissance is a historiographical term used for the blossoming of Byzantine culture in the 9th-11th centuries, under the eponymous Macedonian dynasty , following the upheavals and transformations of the 7th-8th centuries, also known as the Byzantine Dark Ages. The period is also known as the era of Byzantine encyclopedism because of attempts to systematically organize and codify knowledge, as exemplified by the works of the scholar Emperor Constantine VII Porphyrogennetos.  Historiographical term  Because of problems with the term, scholars have employed alternative names to describe this period, including renaissance , renascence, Middle Byzantine Renaissance or First Byzantine Renaissance the Palaeologan Renaissance from the 13th century on being the second. Macedonian art refers to the art of this period. Since the word Renaissance was created in the 15th and the 16th centuries by Italian humanists to describe their own time, its use outside of that context is problematic however, the period in question certainly did produce ideas and works of art that reflected a reassessment of...
Gene Harris of the Three Sounds is an album by American pianist Gene Harris recorded in 1972 and released on the Blue Note label. Although the title refers to Harris' group The Three Sounds the album is usually recognised as a solo effort as none of the other original members of the group participated in the recording.  Reception  The Allmusic review awarded the album 2 stars.  Track listing  Django Lean on Me A Day in the Life of a Fool John Brown's Body Listen Here Emily Killer Joe C Jam Blues Recorded at AR Studios in New York City on June 29 and June 30 , 1972.  Personnel  Musicians Gene Harris - piano Sam Brown, Cornell Dupree - guitar Ron Carter - bass Freddie Waits - drums Johnny Rodriguez - conga Omar Clay - percussion, vibes Wade Marcus - arranger Production George Butler - executive producer Don Hahn - recording  References 
Ablepharus ladacensis, also known as the Ladak ground skink, is a species of skink found in Tibet , North India, western Nepal, and northern Pakistan. Two subspecies are recognized:Ablepharus ladacensis ladacensis Ablepharus ladacensis stimsoni  References   Further reading  Eremchenko, Valery Konstantinovich . 1987 Systematic and relative links of Indo-Himalayan scincells . Proc. Acad. Sci. Kirghizian SSR 1987: 54-57
Chapali Height is a 2012 Nepali erotic psychological thriller film featuring Amir Gautam, Raj Ghimire and Binita Baral. It was shot in the Chapali Height area in Kathmandu. The movie, directed by Dipendra K Khanal and financed by Arjun Kumar, was shot in 25 days. It is based on the story of a girl living in a hostel in Pokhara, and two guys who fall in love with her. The film received mixed to positive response from critics and audience for its dark theme, background score and actors' performances. It was the second biggest blockbuster of the year behind Nischal Basnet's LOOT .  Plot  Amir and Bineeta come from Pokhara to live in Raj's house at Chapali Height, but the relationship between Amir and Bineeta sours and an accident occurs. Amir starts thinking that Binee is attracted towards Raj. An incident happens where Binee encourages Raj to imagine her as his beloved and kiss her. Amir witnesses this scene, gets angry, and leaves. Binee, understanding that Amir is angry with her, follows her. Amir says that he is fed up with Binee for almost kissing Raj. Binee, in return, says that she was just role-playing kissing Raj. Amir leaves Binee in the night in Raj's house and...
Hekhalot literature , from the Hebrew word for Palaces, relates to visions of entering heaven alive. The genre overlaps with Merkabah mysticism, also called Chariot literature, which concerns Ezekiel's vision of the throne-chariot, so the two are sometimes referred to as the Books of the Palaces and the Chariot . Hekhalot literature is a genre of Jewish esoteric and revelatory texts produced sometime between late antiquity some believe from Talmudic times or earlier to the Early Middle Ages. Many motifs of later Kabbalah are based on the Hekhalot texts, and Hekhalot literature itself is based upon earlier sources, including traditions about the heavenly ascents of Enoch found among the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Pseudepigrapha. Hekhalot itself has many pseudepigraphic texts.  Texts  Some of the Hekhalot texts are: Hekhalot Zutartey Lesser Palaces or Palaces Minor, which details an ascent of Rabbi Akiva through the seven heavens, seeking revelations regarding the holy name of God Hekhalot Rabbati Greater Palaces or Palaces Major, which details the ascent of Rabbi Ishmael when he sought to examine...
The history of Chinese literature extends thousands of years, and begins with the earliest recorded inscriptions, court archives, building to the major works of philosophy and history written during the Axial Age. The Han and Tang dynasties were considered golden ages of poetry, while the Song and Yuan were notable for their lyrics , essays, dramas, and plays. During the Ming and Qing, mature novels were written in written vernacular Chinese, an evolution from the preeminence of Literary Chinese patterned off the language of the Chinese classics. The introduction of widespread woodblock printing during the Tang and the invention of movable type printing by Bi Sheng during the Song rapidly spread written knowledge throughout China. Around the turn of the 20th century, the author Lu un is considered an influential voice of vernacular Chinese literature.  Pre-classical period  Formation of the earliest layer of Chinese literature was influenced by oral traditions of different social and professional provenance: cult and lay musical practices , divination , astronomy...
Rabbinic literature, in its broadest sense, is the entire corpus of works authored by rabbis throughout Jewish history. The term typically refers to literature from the Talmudic era , as opposed to medieval and modern rabbinic writings. It aligns with the Hebrew term Sifrut Chazal , which translates to literature sages and generally pertains only to the sages from the Talmudic period. This more specific sense of Rabbinic literature-referring to the Talmud, Midrashim , and related writings, but hardly ever to later texts-is how the term is generally intended when used in contemporary academic writing. The terms mefareshim and parshanim almost always refer to later, post-Talmudic writers of rabbinic glosses on Biblical and Talmudic texts.  Mishnaic literature  The Midr'she halakha, Mishnah, and Tosefta compiled from materials pre-dating the year 200 CE are the earliest extant works of rabbinic literature, expounding and developing Judaism's Oral Law, as well as ethical teachings. Following these came the two Talmuds: The Jerusalem Talmud, c. 450 CE The Babylonian Talmud, full canonization...
Literature of Flanders or Flemish literature is literature from Flanders, historically a region comprising parts of present-day Belgium, France and the Netherlands. Until the early 19th century, this literature was regarded as an integral part of Dutch literature. After Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830, the terms Flemish literature and literature of Flanders acquired a narrower meaning, and refer to the Dutch-language literature produced in Belgium. Most of the literature created in Flanders remains part of Dutch-language literature.  Medieval Flemish literature   Chronicles  The oldest literary works from the region now known as Flanders until 1795 roughly comprising the County of Flanders, the heart of the Duchy of Brabant, and the County of Loon were not written in the Middle Dutch language, but in Latin. Apart from such devotional literature such as hagiography, various local and regional chronicles began to emerge as early forms of historiography. The earliest textual tradition in the County of Flanders was the so-called Flandria Generosa, which started as a very simple and basic genealogy of the counts of Flanders in the late 10th...
Street literature is any of several different types of publication sold on the streets, at fairs and other public gatherings, by travelling hawkers, pedlars or chapmen, from the fifteenth to the nineteenth centuries. Robert Collison's account of the subject describes street literature as the forerunner of the popular press. Leslie Shepard's History of Street Literature identifies a range of different publications as indicated by the subtitle: The Story of Broadside Ballads, Chapbooks, Proclamations, News-Sheets, Election Bills, Tracts, Pamphlets, Cocks, Catchpennies, and Other Ephemera. Street literature therefore includes several different printed formats and publication types.  Broadside ballad  Broadside ballads are traditional ballads printed on one side of a full sheet or half sheet of paper, often in landscape orientation. Intended to be pasted on to walls for public consultation.  Chapbook  Chapbooks were small, paper-covered booklets, usually printed on a single sheet and folded into books of 8, 12, 16 or 24 pages, either stitched or unstitched. There are several sub-categories of chapbook, notably: Histories - 12 or 24- page booklets containing popular accounts...
Bahamian literature is literature written or produced in the Bahamas or by Bahamians.  Humanities   History  Islanders in the Stream: A History of the Bahamian People: Volume One: From Aboriginal Times to the End of Slavery was published in 1992 and is the first comprehensive chronicle of the Bahamian people in the Bahamas, and it is the first work of its kind in the Caribbean region. It was written by Canadian author Michael Craton and Bahamian Historian and Author Gail Saunders. A part two of this work was also published in 2000. The Migration of Peoples from the Caribbean to the Bahamas was written by Bahamian Historian and Author Keith L. Tinker and Published in 2011. It focuses on Immigration to the Bahamas by people from other Caribbean countries throughout history.  Folk  Afro-Bahamian Folk literature since the late 18th century were based heavily on the trickster tales that featured many characters, most common was B'Rabby, B'Bouki, B'Spider, B'Elephant, etc. These Folk tales were largely oral until the late 19th century when American researchers started writing them down. These tales are also featured in Bahamian author Patricia Glinton-Meicholas's An Evening...
Asian literature is the literature produced in Asia.  Examples  East Asian literature Chinese literature Japanese literature Korean literature Taiwanese literature Vietnamese literature Southeast Asian literature Burmese literature Cambodian literature Indonesian literature Laotian literature Malaysian literature Philippine literature Singaporean literature Thai literature South Asian literature Assamese literature Bangladeshi folk literature Bhutanese literature Gujarati literature Indian literature Kannada literature Malayalam literature Marathi literature Odia literature Pakistani literature Sri Lankan literature Tamil literature Telugu literature Tibetan literature Central Asian literature Kazakh literature Kyrgyz literature Mongolian literature Pashto literature Tajik literature Turkmen literature Uzbek literature Uyghur literature West Asian literature Persian literature Arabic literature Jewish literature Turkish literature North Asian literature Russian literature  Classical Chinese and Japanese literature  In Tang and Song dynasty China, famous poets such as Li Bai authored works of great importance. They wrote sh poems, which have lines with...
French literature generally speaking, is literature written in the French language, particularly by French citizens it may also refer to literature written by people living in France who speak traditional languages of France other than French. Literature written in the French language by citizens of other nations such as Belgium, Switzerland, Canada, Senegal, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, etc. is referred to as Francophone literature. For centuries, French literature has been an object of national pride for French people, and it has been one of the most influential aspects of the literature of Europe. France ranks first on the list of Nobel Prizes in literature by country. One of the first known examples of French literature is the Song of Roland, the first major work in a series of poems known as, chansons de geste. The French language is a Romance language derived from Latin and heavily influenced principally by Celtic and Frankish. Beginning in the 11th century, literature written in medieval French was one of the oldest vernacular literatures in western Europe and it became a key source of literary themes in the Middle Ages across the...
Cordel literature from the Portuguese term, literatura de cordel, literally string literature, Portuguese pronunciation:  are popular and inexpensively printed booklets or pamphlets containing folk novels, poems and songs. They are produced and sold in street markets and by street vendors in Brazil, mainly in the Northeast. They are so named because they are hung from strings to display them to potential customers, and the word for rope in Portuguese is corda, from which the term cordel is derived.  History  Cordel literature forms one of the least altered continuations of the Western traditions of popular literature, such as chapbooks, and popular prints. Its history dates back to the 16th century, when the printing of oral reports became popularized in the Renaissance. This genre derives from the papel volante tradition of Portugal, a literary genre also found in Spain during the 18th and 19th centuries, and offered readers a wide array of topics, from basic instruction to political tracts. The name comes from the way the leaflets were traditionally displayed for sale, hung on ropes, twine or string in Portugal. It remains a popular literary form in Brazil. In the...
Icelandic literature refers to literature written in Iceland or by Icelandic people. It is best known for the sagas written in medieval times, starting in the 13th century. As Icelandic and Old Norse are almost the same, and because Icelandic works constitute most of Old Norse literature, Old Norse literature is often considered a subset of Icelandic literature. However, works by Norwegians are present in the standard reader Snisbk slenzkra bkmennta til mirar tjndu aldar, compiled by Sigurur Nordal on the grounds that the language was the same.  Early Icelandic literature  The medieval Icelandic literature is usually divided into three parts: Eddic poetry Sagas Skaldic poetry  The Eddas  There has been some discussion on the probable etymology of the term Edda. Most say it stems from the Old Norse term edda, which means great-grandmother, but some see a reference to Oddi, a place where Snorri Sturluson was brought up. The Elder Edda or Poetic Edda originally attributed to Smundr fri, although this is now rejected by modern scholars is a collection of Old Norse poems and stories originated in the late 10th century. Although these...
It is common to depict suicide in literature. Suicide, the act of deliberately killing oneself, is a prominent action in many important works of literature. Authors use the suicide of a character to portray defiance, despair, love, or honor. Whether it is written as the ultimate act of devotion or the result of depression, the act of suicide was and is a prevalent action within the context of English literature.  Novels  According to Lorna Ruth Wiedmann, novelistic suicide patterns first emerged in the nineteenth century. She categorized nineteenth-century works based on five themes: murder-followed-by-suicide the survivor of suicide age and the suicide the suicide's choice of method and gender and suicide. Kevin Grauke stated that suicide serves an ambivalent rhetorical function in the works of the nineteenth-century. Authors such as Kate Chopin, Ernest Hemingway, and Virginia Woolf include themes of suicide in their writing.  Shakespeare  William Shakespeare's characters die by suicide in several of his plays. In the final scene of Romeo and Juliet, the titular young lovers both die by suicide. Suicide also occurs in Julius Caesar when Brutus and Cassius both kill...
The 7th Cavalry Division was a unit of the German Army in World War I. The division was formed on the mobilization of the German Army in August 1914. The division was disbanded in 1919 during the demobilization of the German Army after World War I.  Combat chronicle  It was initially assigned to III Cavalry Corps, which preceded 6th Army's advance on the Western Front. In October 1915, it was engaged in occupation duties in Belgium until October 1916, when it relocated to Romania. In January 1917, the division returned to the Western Front and was in Alsace until May 1918, Flanders until August 1918, Artois to October 1918 and back to Flanders until the end of the war. It was dismounted on 14 May 1918 and restructured to form the 7th Cavalry Schtzen Division. By the end of the war, it was serving under 64th Corps , Armee-Abteilung B, Heeresgruppe Herzog Albrecht von Wrttemberg on the Western Front. A more detailed combat chronicle can be found at the German-language version of this article.  Order of Battle on mobilisation  On formation, in August 1914, the component units of the division were: 26th Cavalry Brigade from III Army Corps District...
Crassispira boadicea is an extinct species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Pseudomelatomidae, the turrids and allies.  Description  The length of the shell attains 25 mm, its diameter 9.7 mm. The rather large shell is rudely biconic. The body is angular, the basal curvature very slight. It contains probably 10 whorls in the conch of the perfect adult. The protoconch is smooth but is not perfectly preserved in any of the available material. The anal fasciole is very wide, usually more than half the altitude of the volution, broadly concave, devoid of axial sculpture. The area in front of the fasciole is undulated by the axials, which number 14 on the body of the holotype but which run as low as 11. The axials are most prominent upon the periphery, which they crenulate, rapidly evanescent behind the periphery, persistent to the anterior suture but with constantly diminishing strength. They become obsolete upon the base of the body. The spirals are low, flattened, and rather obscure, usually 3 upon the antepenultimatwhorl 15 upon the ultima, the 6 upon the columella are slightly more elevated than those upon the body. Ssecondaries are fortuitously introduced...
Jean-Franois Lamour is a French former fencer and current politician and cabinet minister. During his fencing career, Lamour achieved various athletic accomplishments, notably qualifying for the 1987 world championship. He earned two gold medals, two silver medals, and one bronze medal in sabre Olympic events between 1984 and 1988. After retiring from fencing, Lamour entered politics and served as the sports and youth counselor to the Mayor of Paris from 1993 to 1995. In 2002, he assumed the position of minister of sport, and later in 2004, he took on additional responsibilities for youth. Lamour is married to Dr. Isabelle Spennato, a former French fencer who currently holds the position of president of the French Fencing Federation.  Athletic career  Lamour began his fencing journey at the age of eight and attained his first notable win in 1971 at the French junior championship in Sabre fencing when he reached the age of 15. Four years subsequent to that achievement, in 1975, Lamour advanced to the semifinals during the World Championship, which took place in Bucharest. Over the next few years, he broke the national record by winning the Champion...
German submarine U-924 was a Type VIIC U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine during World War II. She was ordered on 6 June 1941, and was laid down on 15 April 1942 at Neptun Werft AG, Rostock, as yard number 511. She was launched on 25 September 1943 and commissioned under the command of Oberleutnant zur See Hans-Jrg Schild on 20 November 1943.  Design  German Type VIIC submarines were preceded by the shorter Type VIIB submarines. U-924 had a displacement of 769 tonnes when at the surface and 871 tonnes while submerged. She had a total length of 67.10 m , a pressure hull length of 50.50 m , a beam of 6.20 m , a height of 9.60 m , and a draught of 4.74 m . The submarine was powered by two Germaniawerft F46 four-stroke, six-cylinder supercharged diesel engines producing a total of 2,800 to 3,200 metric horsepower for use while surfaced, two SSW GU 34338-8 double-acting electric motors producing a total of 750 metric horsepower for use while submerged. She had two shafts and two 1.23 m propellers. The boat was capable of operating...
Ann I. Zabludoff is an American astronomer and astrophysicist whose research has included galaxy clusters and the effects of galactic environments on star formation, and the use of gravitational lenses to study the formation and interaction of the earliest galaxies, including observations with the Magellan Telescopes and Hubble Space Telescope. She is a professor of astronomy, astrophysics, and cosmology at the University of Arizona.  Education and career  Zabludoff is originally from Pennsylvania. She was an undergraduate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and earned bachelor's degrees in both mathematics and physics there in 1986 and 1987, before completing a Ph.D. in astronomy at Harvard University in 1993. After postdoctoral research as a Carnegie Fellow at the Carnegie Observatories in Pasadena, California and as an Edwin P. Hubble Fellow at the University of California, Santa Cruz, she became a faculty member at the University of Arizona in 1999.  Recognition  Zabludoff was named a Guggenheim Fellow in 2013.  References   External links  Home page Faculty profile Ann Zabludoff publications indexed by Google Scholar
The 2022-23 Federal Budget of Pakistan was presented on 10 June 2022 by Finance Minister Miftah Ismail, with Rs 9.5 trillion budgeted for expenditure in financial year 2022-2023, which was nearly a trillion higher than the previous financial year. On 29 June 2022, the National Assembly of Pakistan approved the passage of the Finance Bill, 2022. In February 2023, Pakistani cabinet approved 'Finance Supplementary Bill 2023' for Mini Budget. The budget for FY2022-23 aimed to raise Rs. 7 trillion in tax revenue, raise Rs. 372 billion from Sukuk and Eurobonds, target a primary surplus of 0.2 of GDP, target a fiscal deficit of 49 of GDP and meet IMF benchmarks.  Budgetary Policies  Dawn reported the following budget measures: Pensioner tax reduced from 10 to 5 Subsidies on sugar, wheat, and flour Rs699bn on targeted subsidies in fiscal year Defence expenditure at Rs1.52tr Inflation forecast at 11.5 Tax-to-GDP ratio set at 9.2 FBR given target of Rs7 trillion Deficit target set at Rs3.8 trillion Total of Rs9.5 trillion in expenditure Government salaries increased by 15 No taxes for government employes making less than...
Diedra intermontana is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in the United States, where it has been recorded from California, Nevada and New Mexico. The moth is about 19-20 mm. Adults have been recorded on wing from June to August.  References 
Cervical effacement or cervical ripening refers to the thinning and shortening of the cervix. This process occurs during labor to prepare the cervix for dilation to allow the fetus to pass through the vagina. While this is a normal, physiological process that occurs at the later end of pregnancy, it can also be induced through medications and procedures. During gestation, the cervix maintains pregnancy by increasing synthesis of various proteins. These proteins have defined interactions that allow the formation of matrix proteins to help fortify the uterine cervix. Toward the end of pregnancy, a series of hormone-mediated biochemical process takes place to degrade the collagen and fiber network to cause the cervix to ripen during labor. Failure to ripen the cervix during labor may delay its onset and cause complications. Current efforts to induce labor include pharmacologic, non-pharmacologic, mechanical and surgical methods. Cervical ripening has primarily been performed in the inpatient setting. Due to a variety of reasons, such as cost and patient preference, the capacity to undergo outpatient cervical ripening is being explored. Cervical ripening options require ample time to...
Vicia villosa, known as the hairy vetch, fodder vetch or winter vetch, is a plant native to some of Europe and western Asia. It is a legume, grown as a forage crop, fodder crop, cover crop, and green manure. Although non-native, it occurs in all US states and is considered invasive by some states, such as Alaska, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oregon, and Washington state - as well as in Japan and some parts of Europe where it is not native. It is also found in most Canadian provinces. Hairy vetch is very similar to tufted vetch , the most noticeable difference being that tufted vetch has a smooth stem. Several subspecies are recognized: Vicia villosa ssp. ambigua Kerguelen Vicia villosa ssp. eriocarpa P.W.Ball Vicia villosa ssp. microphylla P.W.Ball Vicia villosa ssp. varia Corb. Vicia villosa ssp. villosa The species Vicia hirsuta is also called hairy vetch.  Cultivation  Hairy vetch is widely used by organic growers in the United States as a winter cover crop and in no-till farming, as it is both winter hardy and can fix as much as 200 lbacre...
Orocrambus heteraulus is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by Edward Meyrick in 1905. It is endemic to New Zealand. This species has been recorded to inhabit the Humboldt Range and the Routeburn Valley. The wingspan is 28-35 mm. Adults have been recorded from in December and February.  References 
The year 1965 in television involved some significant events. Below is a list of television-related events in 1965.  Events  January 1 - Comedian Soupy Sales, who hosted the Lunch With Soupy Sales children's program on New York City's WNEW-TV, encourages his young viewers to send him money from their parents' pants and pocketbooks and send them to him, and in return he would send you a postcard from Puerto Rico! Days later, when he actually got response, he declared that he was joking and that cash contributions would be donated to charity, but WNEW suspended Sales for two weeks over the incident. February 22 - A new, videotaped production of the 1957 special Cinderella, by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, airs on CBS with young Lesley Ann Warren starring alongside Ginger Rogers, Walter Pidgeon, and Celeste Holm. March 11 - After months of speculation, Vivian Vance announces she is departing The Lucy Show following the conclusion of its third season. She would return to the series for guest appearances a few years later, a tradition that continued into Lucille Ball's following series, Here's Lucy. March 24 - Live TV pictures from the US uncrewed...
A sliver polygon, in the context of Geographic Information Systems , is a small polygon found in vector data that is an artifact of error rather than representing a real-world feature. They have been a recognized source of error since overlay was first invented in the 1970s.  History  These meaningless polygons were recognized early in the development of GIS. In fact, in 1978 Michael Goodchild found that they constituted the majority of all polygons in some operational GIS. Early programs for performing vector overlay, such as WHIRLPOOL, developed mechanisms for preventing sliver polygons, such as the epsilon filter In recent decades, most of the focus of software vendors and practitioners has been on improving the quality of GIS data to prevent them.  Cause, Prevention, Repair  Sliver polygons are typically created when polygons are automatically generated from lines that should be coincident e.g., an international boundary following a river de jure, or two adjacent counties but are not, due to the natural discrepancies that arise from manual or automated digitization. This can occur when a single layer is digitized and adjacent polygons are traced...
The Agok Skirmish was an armed confrontation between South Sudanese and Sudanese soldiers during the Heglig Crisis. The incident raised tensions of the possibility of an all-out war between South Sudan and Sudan.  Events  On the night of April 17, 2012, a South Sudanese soldier positioned along the disputed borderline, crossed onto the Sudanese side to get water from a river. He was shot dead by a Sudanese soldier. The shooting sparked subsequent clashes between South Sudanese SPLA and Sudanese SAF troops in the area. The fighting lasted for hours, killing 22 soldiers. A Sudanese spokesman claimed the action was intended to create another battle front in the war to distract Sudanese military forces in the region. A South Sudanese government spokesmen labeled the fight as a misunderstanding and said he did not think violence would continue there. This incident briefly raised tensions between South Sudan and Sudan that the border conflict centered around the Heglig oil fields, has the potential to spillover over elsewhere along the disputed border.  References 
The 31st Slovenia Division Serbo-Croatian Latin: Tridesetprva slovenaka divizija was a Yugoslav Partisan division formed on 6 October 1943 in Western Slovenia. It was formed from the 7th Slovenia Brigade, 16th Slovenia Brigade and Tolmin Brigade. Before it was renamed upon joining the 9th Corps on 22 December 1943, this division was known as the 26th Triglav Division. The division operated mostly in Slovenia during its existence.  References 
Mosan art is a regional style of art from the valley of the Meuse in present-day Belgium, the Netherlands, and Germany. Although in a broader sense the term applies to art from this region from all periods, it generally refers to Romanesque art, with Mosan Romanesque architecture, stone carving, metalwork, enamelling and manuscript illumination reaching a high level of development during the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries. The Meuse river valley lay in the heart of the earlier Carolingian Empire and therefore the style draws largely from the heritage of the Carolingian art tradition. Thus, Mosan art contains strong classical elements, which separates it from the international Romanesque style seen elsewhere during the period, for example in France, Germany Spain and Italy. However, it shares with mainstream Romanesque art elements such as the treatment of space. Although the iconography of 11th- and 12th-century Meuse valley art largely draws on Biblical inspiration, some of the elaborately carved capitals in the two main churches in Maastricht depict scenes from many aspects of daily life, as well as images from an intriguing world of fantasy.  Geographical spread  The Mosan region...
Uncial 0126 ,  36 , is a Greek uncial manuscript of the New Testament, dated palaeographically to the 8th century.  Description  The codex contains a small part of the Gospel of Mark 5:34-6:2, on one parchment leaf . The text is written in two columns per page, 24 lines per page, in large uncial letters. The Greek text of this codex is a representative of the mixed text-type. Kurt Aland placed it in Category III. It is dated by the Institute for New Testament Textual Research to the 8th-century. The codex used to be held in Qubbat al-Khazna in Damascus. The present location of the codex is unknown. The manuscript is cited in the Novum Testamentum Graece.  See also  List of New Testament uncials Textual criticism  References 
As a small country, local transport in Kuwait is largely road-based with one car for every 2.25 people. Bus services make up Kuwait's entire public transport network. There are seven airports in Kuwait, the largest of which and solely allocated for civil use is Kuwait International Airport. The Gulf Railway is currently under planning in Kuwait. Kuwait has several maritime ports along the coast of the Persian Gulf, the largest port is Mubarak Al Kabeer Port which is currently under construction. During the First Gulf War, a lot of Kuwait's infrastructure was damaged or destroyed.  Road transport  As a nation with one car per 2.25 people, Kuwait relies heavily on its road network for transportation. The total length of paved and unpaved roads was 6,524 km in 2009. Traffic congestion is common throughout the day, particularly in Kuwait City. The country's public transport network consists entirely of bus routes. The state-owned Kuwait Public Transportation Company was established in 1962. It runs local bus routes across Kuwait. The main private bus company is CityBus, which operates about 28 routes across the country. Another private bus company, Kuwait Gulf Link Public Transport...
Transportation in France relies on one of the densest networks in the world with 146 km of road and 6.2 km of rail lines per 100 km2. It is built as a web with Paris at its center. Rail, road, air and water are all widely developed forms of transportation in France.  History  The first important human improvements were the Roman roads linking major settlements and providing quick passage for marching armies. All through the Middle Ages improvements were few and second rate. Transport became slow and awkward to use. The early modern period saw great improvements. There was a very quick production of canals connecting rivers. It also saw great changes in oceanic shipping. Rather than expensive galleys, wind powered ships that were much faster and had more room for cargo became popular for coastal trade. Transatlantic shipping with the New World turned cities such as Nantes, Bordeaux, Cherbourg-Octeville and Le Havre into major ports. By 1800, the average distance a person walked each day was around 4 kilometres . The bicycle in 1870 allowed for greater distances to be travelled under human power. Cars were first used in the late 19th century, but became common in the 1950s...
Transport divide also known as transport exclusion, transport disadvantage, transport deprivation, transportation divide, and mobility divide refers to unequal access to transportation. It can result in the social exclusion of disadvantaged groups. The concept covers issues ranging from unequal access to public transportation to the unequal opportunities in global migration due to different visa policies as part of the global North-South divide. There are a number of aspects of the transport divide. People may have difficulty in using transport system because of physical barriers, such as a lack of accessibility for the disabled lack of wheelchair access also impacts people with baby strollers or bicycles. Insufficient labeling can also cause problems for people who do not speak the local language. Financial barriers in the form of cost of services can prevent the poor from using the transport services. Distance barriers in the form of distance from people's homes can make some areas mostly inaccessible to people without access to a car, particularly when local public transportation is not well developed. Time barriers include problems caused by rush hour, but also time constraints...
A supersonic transport or a supersonic airliner is a civilian supersonic aircraft designed to transport passengers at speeds greater than the speed of sound in terms of air speed. To date, the only SSTs to see regular service have been Concorde and the Tupolev Tu-144, although the Boom Technology Overture SST may succeed in starting service around 2029, which would make it the third operational SST. The last passenger flight of the Tu-144 was in June 1978 and it was last flown in 1999 by NASA. Concorde's last commercial flight was in October 2003, with a November 26, 2003, ferry flight being its last flight. Following the termination of flying by Concorde, there have been no SSTs in commercial service. However, several companies have proposed supersonic business jet designs. Small SSTs have less environmental impact and design capability improves with continuing research which is aimed at producing an acceptable aircraft. Supersonic airliners have been the objects of numerous ongoing design studies such as those of Boom Technology. Drawbacks and design challenges are excessive noise generation at takeoff and due to sonic booms during flight, high development costs, expensive...
An authorization to transport is a permit issued by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police under the Canadian Firearms Program allowing transportation of restricted or prohibited firearms in Canada. ATT permits are granted by a chief firearms officer , who represents the Canadian Firearms Program provincially. Individuals who bear a possession and acquisition licence do not need an ATT for the transportation of non-restricted firearms. However, an ATT is required for transporting restricted or prohibited firearms to locations other than an approved shooting range, a gunsmith, a gun show, or a port of entry. In order to transport a restricted or prohibited firearm it must be unloaded. It also must have a functional trigger lock and be kept in a locked opaque case. Ammunition may be carried with the firearm or separately stored, provided it is not loaded in the gun i.e., magazines may contain ammunition, but may not be loaded in the firearm.  Storage conditions  The transportation regulations are broken down into two divisions: those for non-restricted firearms and those for restricted or prohibited firearms. These rules are laid out by the Department of...
Transport in Ethiopia is overseen by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Over the last years, the Ethiopian federal authorities have significantly increased funding for rail and road construction to build an infrastructure, that allows better economic development.  Railways  Ethiopia is building a standard gauge railway network, the National Railway Network of Ethiopia, planned to consist of up to 6,000 km of railways in a number of years. The railway network serves a strategic goal to allow Ethiopia a sustainable and stable economic development. By 2030, the Ethiopian government hopes to invest about 65 billion into its transportation. The railway network's primary purpose is then both to connect landlocked Ethiopia to the world market by ensuring a seamless access to one or several sea ports for trade and for transporting most imports and exports. The rail transport of goods appears favorable - if compared to road transport - in terms of volume, costs, safety and speed of transportation for both imports and exports. The primary port for Ethiopia is the Port of Djibouti in Djibouti. More than 95 of Ethiopia's trade passes through Djibouti. The port of Djibouti is served...
The city of Hobart, Tasmania, Australia is served by a wide variety of transport. While the city's main form of transport is private transport on the road network, transport is also available by bus, ferry and aircraft. A suburban train service operated on the South line between Hobart and Brighton from the 1870s until 31 December 1974. There has been talk in the 21st century of reinstating a train service in the northern suburbs.  Public transport  Public transport in Hobart has been provided exclusively by buses since 1968. Trams ran in Hobart from 1893 to 1960 and were briefly replaced by trolleybuses, from 1960 to 1968. The low population density of Hobart has resulted in the creation of bus routes which cover a wide area and operate at a low frequency. The consequence is that bus travel is not competitive with travel by car, because routes are often lengthy and indirect, meaning that passengers can take a long time to reach their final destination. This has contributed to Hobart having the second-lowest public transport patronage in Australia. Since the completion of the Brighton Transport Hub, the former South railway line through inner Hobart has fallen into disuse. Serious...
Transport in Kiribati is limited by the country's geography as a widely dispersed island nation in the central Pacific Ocean. The transport system consists primarily of short road networks on major atolls, domestic and international air services, and coastal and inter-island sea transport. There are no railways, and most travel between islands relies on ships or aircraft, with Tarawa and Kiritimati serving as the main transport hubs.  Roadways  There are 670 km of highways in Kiribati of which 27 km are paved in South Tarawa . The longest stretch of road travels from South Tarawa to North Tarawa. There are no railways.  Water transport  Ports and harbours include Banaba, Betio, English Harbor, and Kanton. There is a small network of canals, totaling 5 km, in the Line Islands. The Merchant marine includes the ships of the Kiribati JMR Group that operates the Coral Sea Shipping Line, which has three ships: Coral Sea number 1, Coral Sea number 2 and Coral Sea number 3. One merchant ship connects, from time to time, the Line Islands and makes stops en route at the Phoenix Islands.  Air travel  2 small aeroplanes fly out...
The transport system in Rwanda centres primarily around the road network. Paved roads lie between the capital, Kigali, and most other major cities and towns in the country. Rwanda is also linked by road with other countries in the African Great Lakes, via which the majority of the country's imports and exports are made. The country has an international airport at Kigali, serving one domestic and several international destinations, and also has limited transport between the port cities on Lake Kivu.There are currently no railways in Rwanda. A large amount of investments in the transport infrastructure has been made by the government since the 1994 genocide, with aid from the European Union, China, Japan and others.  The road network  Rwanda has a total of 12,000 km of roads, of which 1,000 km are paved. The remainder are dirt roads with quality varying from smooth hard surfaces with drainage to rutted, extremely uneven tracks passable only with a four-wheel drive vehicle. Vehicles in the country drive on the right-hand side of the road. However, the three largest members of the East African Community to which Rwanda is a part of, including neighbouring...
This article concerns systems of transport in Lesotho. As a landlocked country, Lesotho has no seaports or harbours, but does have road, air transport, and limited rail infrastructure.  Roads  Prior to Lesotho's independence in 1966, the only paved road in the country was the Kingsway in the capital, Maseru, between the Mejametalana Airport and the Royal Palace. Since the early 1970s, the road infrastructure has been substantially developed. In 1999, Lesotho had a road network measuring at 5,940 kilometres in length, of which 1,087 kilometres were paved. The most weight has been given to connecting the district centres, but the roads within central Lesotho have also been improved, as part of the construction needs of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project.  Railways  The only railway line in Lesotho is the Maseru branch line, which connects the capital city Maseru to the Bloemfontein-Bethlehem line in the railway network of South Africa. The final 1.6 kilometres of this line, which opened on 18 December 1905, lies within the borders of Lesotho, running from the border bridge on the Mohokare River through the northern industrial district of Maseru...
Attack transport is a United States Navy ship classification for a variant of ocean-going troopship adapted to transporting invasion forces ashore. Unlike standard troopships - often drafted from the merchant fleet - that rely on either a quay or tenders, attack transports carry their own fleet of landing craft, such as the landing craft, vehicle, personnel or Higgins boat. They are not to be confused with landing ships, which beach themselves to bring their troops directly ashore, or their general British equivalent, the landing ship, infantry. A total of 388 APA and AKA attack transports were built for service in World War II in at least fifteen classes. Depending on class they were armed with one or two 5-inch guns and a variety of 40 mm and 20 mm anti-aircraft weapons. By the late 1960s, 41 of these ships were redesignated with the hull symbol landing platform, amphibious, but they all retained their names and hull numbers.  Classification  In the early 1940s, as the United States Navy expanded in response to the threat of involvement in World War II, a number of civilian passenger ships and some freighters were acquired, converted to transports...
Neutron transport is the study of the motions and interactions of neutrons with materials. The neutron transport equation models the radiative transfer of neutrons and is commonly used to determine the behavior of nuclear reactor cores and experimental or industrial neutron beams.  Background  Neutron transport has roots in the Boltzmann equation, which was used in the 1800s to study the kinetic theory of gases. It did not receive large-scale development until the invention of chain-reaction nuclear reactors in the 1940s. As neutron distribution came under detailed scrutiny, elegant approximations and analytic solutions were found in simple geometries. However, as computational power increased, numerical approaches to neutron transport have become prevalent. Using massively parallel computers, neutron transport remains under active development in academia and research institutions throughout the world. It is computationally challenging since it depends on time and the three dimensions of space, and the variables of energy span several orders of magnitude . Modern solutions use discrete ordinates, Monte Carlo methods...
Axonal transport, also called axoplasmic transport or axoplasmic flow, is the cellular process responsible for moving lipids, synaptic vesicles, proteins, mitochondria and other organelles to and from a neuron's cell body, through the cytoplasm of its axon called the axoplasm. Since some axons are on the order of meters long, neurons cannot rely on diffusion to carry products of the nucleus and organelles to the ends of their axons. Axonal transport is also responsible for moving molecules destined for degradation from the axon back to the cell body, where they are broken down by lysosomes. Movement toward the cell body is called retrograde transport and movement toward the synapse is called anterograde transport.  Mechanism  The vast majority of axonal proteins are synthesized in the neuronal cell body and transported along axons. Some mRNA translation has been demonstrated within axons. Axonal transport occurs throughout the life of a neuron and is essential to its growth and survival. Microtubules run along the length of the axon and provide the main cytoskeletal tracks for transportation. Kinesin and dynein are motor proteins that move cargoes in the anterograde...
There are a number of systems of transport in Burundi, including road and water-based infrastructure, the latter of which makes use of Lake Tanganyika. Furthermore, there are also some airports in Burundi. Burundi has limited ferry services on Lake Tanganyika, few road connections to neighboring countries, no rail connections, and only one airport with a paved runway. Public transport is extremely limited and private bus companies operate buses on the route to Kigali, Uganda, Tanzania and Democratic Republic of Congo.  Roads  Roads total 12,322 kilometres as of 2004. On paper, there are 90 public buses in the country but few of these are operational. Transport is extremely limited, and private bus companies operate buses on the route to Kigali, Uganda, Tanzania or the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Waterways  Lake Tanganyika is used for transport, with the major port on the lake being the Port of Bujumbura. Most freight is transported down waterways. As of May 2015, MV Mwongozo, a passenger and cargo ferry, connects Bujumbura with Kigoma in Tanzania.  Airports and air services  Burundi possesses eight airports, of which one has paved runways, whose length exceeds...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 193 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
This is a timeline of GitHub, a web-based Git or version control repository and Internet hosting service.  Big picture   Full timeline   See also  Censorship of GitHub Timeline of social media Timeline of online food delivery Timeline of online advertising  References 
Since the creation of bitcoin in 2009, the number of new cryptocurrencies has expanded rapidly. The UK's Financial Conduct Authority estimated there were over 20,000 different crypto tokens by the start of 2023, although many of these were no longer traded and would never grow to a significant size. Active and inactive currencies are listed in this article.  Active currencies by date of introduction   Inactive currencies   See also  Cryptojacking List of digital currencies Tornado Cash - Ethereum cryptocurrency tumbler  Notes   References 
A vector database, vector store or vector search engine is a database that stores and retrieves embeddings of data in vector space. Vector databases typically implement approximate nearest neighbor algorithms so users can search for records semantically similar to a given input, unlike traditional databases which primarily look up records by exact match. Use-cases for vector databases include similarity search, semantic search, multi-modal search, recommendations engines, object detection, and retrieval-augmented generation . Vector embeddings are mathematical representations of data in a high-dimensional space. In this space, each dimension corresponds to a feature of the data, with the number of dimensions ranging from a few hundred to tens of thousands, depending on the complexity of the data being represented. Each data item is represented by one vector in this space. Words, phrases, or entire documents, as well as images, audio, and other types of data, can all be vectorized. These feature vectors may be computed from the raw data using machine learning methods such as feature extraction algorithms, word embeddings or deep learning networks. The goal is that semantically similar...
Ungoogled Chromium is a free and open-source fork of the Chromium web browser that removes all Google-specific web services. It achieves this with a series of patches applied to the Chromium codebase during the compilation process. The result is functionally similar to regular Chromium.  Features  Disabling functionality that requires connection to Google, including Google Safe Browsing. Replacing Google web domains with non-existent domains, and blocking internal requests to those domains. Removing binary blobs from the Chromium source code and replacing them with custom alternatives. Adding dozens of flags to change browser behavior that is otherwise unconfigurable. Some features of regular Chromium do not work the same on ungoogled-chromium. For example, a special browser extension, called chromium-web-store, is required to install other extensions from the Chrome Web Store.  History  The ungoogled-chromium project was founded by a hobbyist with the username Eloston in 2015. It was first developed for Linux, then for other operating systems. Eloston used to release builds, but eventually he stopped doing so and allowed others to provide builds...
Nitter was a free and open source alternative frontend for , formerly known as Twitter, focusing on privacy and performance. Nitter is designed to allow access to  without tracking, advertisements, or the need for an account. It only supports browsing, and cannot be used to sign in or interact with the  community. Users can view user profiles, replies, media, and individual posts alongside their comments and Quote Posts. Nitter also allows for searching by keywords, hashtags, usernames, locations, media and dates and supported the same formatting as 's native advanced search function. It also supports creating RSS feeds for  profiles.  Features  The user interface is designed to be minimalist and resemble the classic  desktop layout. Since users can't log in to  through Nitter, Nitter has no notifications, no home feed, and no ability to tweet. By default, Nitter has no infinite scroll, although an experimental feature allowed for the usage of infinite scroll. It has no ads or tracking, and the timeline is in chronological order. Nitter relied on a glitch that allowed creating a large amount of guest accounts using proxy servers in order to fetch content. It now...
Vue.js commonly referred to as Vue pronounced view is an open-source model-view-viewmodel front end JavaScript framework for building user interfaces and single-page applications. It was created by Evan You and is maintained by him and the rest of the active core team members.  Overview  Vue.js features an incrementally adaptable architecture that focuses on declarative rendering and component composition. The core library is focused on the view layer only. Advanced features required for complex applications such as routing, state management and build tooling are offered via officially maintained supporting libraries and packages. Vue.js allows for extending HTML with HTML attributes called directives. The directives offer functionality to HTML applications, and come as either built-in or user defined directives.  History  Vue was created by Evan You after working for Google using AngularJS in several projects. He later summed up his thought process: I figured, what if I could just extract the part that I really liked about Angular and build something really lightweight. The first source code commit to the project was dated July 2013, at which time it was originally named...
GitLab is a software forge primarily developed by GitLab Inc. It is available as either a free software Community edition or a proprietary software Enterprise edition.  History  GitLab was created in 2011 by Ukrainian programmer Dmytro Zaporozhets. It was a side project, written in Ruby on Rails.  Components  GitLab consists of several components, mostly interconnected by Unix sockets:  References   External links  Official website
Visual Studio Code is an integrated development environment developed by Microsoft for Windows, Linux, macOS and web browsers. Features include support for debugging, syntax highlighting, intelligent code completion, snippets, code refactoring, and embedded version control with Git. Users can change the theme, keyboard shortcuts and preferences, as well as install extensions that add functionality, including to extend its capabilities to function as an IDE for other languages. Visual Studio Code is proprietary software released under the Microsoft Software License, but based on the MIT licensed program named Visual Studio Code - Open Source , also created by Microsoft and available through GitHub. In the 2025 Stack Overflow Developer Survey, out of over 49,000 responses, 75.9 of respondents reported using Visual Studio Code, more than twice the percentage of respondents who reported using its nearest alternative, Visual Studio.  History  Visual Studio Code was first announced on April 29, 2015, by Microsoft at the 2015 Build conference. A preview build was released shortly thereafter. On November 18, 2015, the project...
Electron is a free and open-source software framework developed and maintained by OpenJS Foundation. The framework is designed to create desktop applications using web technologies mainly HTML, CSS and JavaScript, although other technologies such as front-end frameworks and WebAssembly are possible that are rendered using a version of the Chromium browser engine and a back end using the Node.js runtime environment. It also uses various APIs to enable functionality such as native integration with Node.js services and an inter-process communication module. Electron was originally built for Atom and is the main GUI framework behind several other open-source projects including GitHub Desktop, Light Table, WordPress Desktop, and Eclipse Theia. It is also used in Microsoft's proprietary code editor Visual Studio Code.  Architecture  Chromium forms the basis of a managed runtime, allowing application developers to write cross-platform applications in memory-safe JavaScript or TypeScript and target Web browser technologies including HTML, CSS, and SVG for graphics. Electron-based applications include a main process and several renderer processes. The...
npm is a package manager for the JavaScript programming language maintained by npm, Inc., a subsidiary of GitHub. npm is the default package manager for the JavaScript runtime environment Node.js and is included as a recommended feature in the Node.js installer. It consists of a command line client, also called npm, and an online database of public and paid-for private packages, called the npm registry. The registry is accessed via the client, and the available packages can be browsed and searched via the npm website. The package manager and the registry are managed by npm, Inc. Although npm is commonly understood to be an abbreviation of Node Package Manager, it is officially a recursive backronymic abbreviation for npm is not an acronym.  Characteristics  npm can manage packages that are local dependencies of a particular project, as well as globally-installed JavaScript tools. When used as a dependency manager for a local project, npm can install, in one command, all the dependencies of a project through the package.json file. In the package.json file, each dependency can specify a range of valid versions using the semantic versioning scheme, allowing developers to auto...
JSON JavaScript Object Notation, pronounced or  is an open standard file format and data interchange format that uses human-readable text to store and transmit data objects consisting of name-value pairs and arrays . It is a commonly used data format with diverse uses in electronic data interchange, including that of web applications with servers. JSON is a programming language-independent data format. It was derived from JavaScript, but many modern programming languages include code to generate and parse JSON-format data. JSON filenames use the extension .json. Douglas Crockford originally specified the JSON format in the early 2000s, and sent the first JSON message in April 2001 with Chip Morningstar.  Naming and pronunciation  The 2017 international standard specifies that JSON is pronounced , as in 'Jason and The Argonauts'. The first edition of ECMA-404 did not address the pronunciation. Crockford said in 2011, There's a lot of argument about how you pronounce that, but I strictly don't care. Another common pronunciation is .  Standards  After RFC 4627 had been available as its informational...
Bulgaran is Gallant Bulgarian:   , romanized: Blgaran e galant is the first Bulgarian feature film. It is a silent black-and-white comedy written and directed by Vasil Gendov who also stars as the main protagonist Bulgaran. There are different accounts as to when exactly the film was first shown. According to Gendov, shooting started on 16 May 1910 and the premire was in the Modern Theatre in Sofia on 22 June 1910. However, the earliest written record of a showing of the film points to 13 January 1915 as the date of the premire. The film was almost entirely destroyed during the World War II bombardment of Sofia. All that remains is one or two frames.  Plot  Bulgaran is an elegant and outgoing gentleman. He meets a young lady in the street of the city and starts flirting with her. However, she decides to teach him a lesson and asks if he would accompany her to the marketplace. There she goes on a shopping spree, but it turns out she had left all her money home. The lady asks Bulgaran to lend her some to which plea he readily agrees. The lady then takes the gentleman to a fancy restaurant where she orders expensive drinks and refreshments, all to Bulgaran's expense...
Alice Morrison FRSGS is a Scottish adventurer and explorer active in the Arab world. She also presents television series about the history and culture of this region, and about her own expeditions. Her book Walking with Nomads was shortlisted for the 2023 Edward Stanford Travel Book of the Year.  Early life  Morrison was born in 1963 in Edinburgh, but grew up in Africa. She studied Turkish and Arabic at Edinburgh University, and speaks Arabic and French. She worked in journalism as a BBC editor and a CEO of VisionMedia, a British quango for creative media.  Expeditions, television, and writing   Morocco journeys  Morrison moved to Morocco in 2014. Based there, in 2017, she worked as presenter for the BBC documentary series Morocco to Timbuktu: An Arabian Adventure. She then led a sequence of camel-supported walking expeditions crossing Morocco. In 2019, she explored the Draa River from the river's source to its mouth. Later the same year, she continued from near the river mouth at Chbika, through the Sahara Desert to Western Sahara's border with Mauritania at Guerguerat. In 2020, she crossed the Atlas Mountains from Nador to Ouarzazate to investigate...
The G2211 Changzhi-Yan'an Expressway , also referred to as the Changyan Expressway , is an expressway in China that connects the cities of Changzhi, Shanxi and Yan'an, Shaanxi.  Route  The expressway begins in Licheng County, Changzhi, and passes through Huozhou, Yonghe County, Yanchuan County, and ends in Ansai District, Yan'an. The route passes through the provinces of Shanxi and Shaanxi.  References 
Mohammed Rafique Bengali:  , born 5 September 1970 is a Bangladeshi cricket coach and former cricketer. He was the first Bangladeshi bowler to take 100 wickets in both formats, Test matches and ODI matches. Rafique is known for his contribution to Bangladesh Cricket. He played for the World I in the Super Series against Australia in 2005 and the Asia I for the exhibition series against Africa I in 2007. He was named captain of Bangladesh Legends cricket team in 2020-21 Road Safety World Series. On 20 January 2022, Rafique joined Asia Lions along with Habibul Bashar in Legends League Cricket, where he took 2 wickets against India Maharajas.  Domestic career  He started his career as a left arm seamer with the 2nd Division side, Bangladesh Sporting, in 1985. In 1988, he joined Bangladesh Biman cricket team. There, under the influence of the Pakistani allrounder Wasim Haider he converted to slow orthodox spin bowling. In December 1994, he played for the Bangladesh team in the 2nd SAARC cricket tournament where he took three wickets and conceded twenty five runs, against India A. He was a member of the Bangladesh team that won the 1997 ICC Trophy. Overall, in...
Nicholsville is an unincorporated community in Marengo County, Alabama, United States. Nicholsville had a post office at one time, but it no longer exists.  Geography  Nicholsville is located at 32.008N 87.902W  32.008 -87.902 and has an elevation of 187 feet .  Notable person  Harwell Goodwin Davis, lawyer, Attorney General of Alabama, and President of Samford University from 1938 to 1958  References 
Mazi Elechukwu Nnadibuagha Njaka was a Nigerian political scientist, known for the book Igbo Political Culture.  Family background  E.N. Njaka was born in Okwaejiaku, Umukegwu, Akokwa on 23 June 1921. His father, Mazi George Maduneme Njaka, was one of the earliest Christian converts of the Catholic Denomination in Orlu province. His mother, Mrs. Mary Nwaku Njaka , also from Umukegwu, was one of the earliest seamstresses to come from Mbanasaa clan. Elechukwu was their second child.  Education  Elechukwu started his education at St. Barnabas Catholic Primary School, Akokwa. On the advice of his missionary friend, Rev. Father Liddan, his father sent Elechukwu to Adazi in the present Anambra State to complete his primary education. In 1937, following the establishment of St. Michael's Catholic Parish, Urualla, he was sent there to teach. Thus he became the first primary school teacher in Mbanasaa clan. A year later , he gained admission into the Christ the King College , Onitsha, for his secondary education. After Elechukwu's wedding to Ulunwa R. ji, his first wife, he was sponsored by his father, in collaboration with his...
Gerald McNee is a Scottish football journalist, who made his name in the Scottish football press with the Scottish Daily Express and Daily Star in the 1970s. He was also a match commentator from 1974 to 2004. McNee also wrote several books about Celtic. He was nicknamed 'The voice of football' by Scotsport, for whom he commentated. McNee also wrote In the Footsteps of the Quiet Man: The Inside Story of the Cult Film, a book about the film The Quiet Man. The book is described as a revealing and touching account of when Hollywood came to beautiful Connemara in the West of Ireland. While a sports writer with the Daily Star, McNee had a dispute with Celtic manager Billy McNeill. McNee retired from broadcasting at the end of the 2003-04 season.  Works  And You'll Never Walk Alone 1972, ISBN 0901311375 A Million Miles for Celtic - An Autobiography Stanley Paul, 1982, ISBN 978-0091502409 In the Footsteps of the Quiet Man: The Inside Story of the Cult Film Mainstream Publishing, 2008, ISBN 978-1845964177 A Lifetime in Paradise: The Jimmy McGrory Story Irnwurks Media, 2013  References 
This is a list of notable computer users' groups categorized by interest.  General  Chaos Computer Club Computer Measurement Group ComputerTown UK Homebrew Computer Club  Hardware platforms  Adamcon Coleco Adam user group Toronto PET Users Group SHARE user group for IBM mainframe computers COMMON for Power Systems IBM i, AS400, iSeries, System i, AI and Linux users in North America. DECUS Digital Equipment Computer Users' Society Macintosh User Group DUsers, the first Macintosh users group, based at Drexel University  Applications  IIUG International Informix Users Group Oracle User Group ASUG Americas' SAP Users' Group  Operating systems  USENI established in 1975 as Unix Users Group Linux user group Bangalore Linux User Group Beijing GNULinux User Group Linux Users' Group of Davis ILUG-Delhi Lanka Linux User Group Linux Australia Linux Users of Victoria LinuxChix Loco team NYLUG Portland LinuxUnix Group RLUG SEUL  Programming languages  Z User Group  Markup languages  Te Users Group Deutschsprachige Anwendervereinigung Te
Phallotorynus is a genus of poeciliid toothcarps native to southern Brazil, northern Argentina, and Paraguay.  Species  There are currently six recognized species in this genus: Phallotorynus dispilos Lucinda, R. de S. Rosa  R. E. dos Reis, 2005 Phallotorynus fasciolatus Henn, 1916 Phallotorynus jucundus R. Ihering , 1930 Phallotorynus pankalos Lucinda, R. de S. Rosa  R. E. dos Reis, 2005 Phallotorynus psittakos Lucinda, R. de S. Rosa  R. E. dos Reis, 2005 Phallotorynus victoriae Oliveros, 1983  References 
The 2011 Kyrgyzstan League season was the 20th edition of the Kyrgyzstan League. It started on 17 April 2011 with six teams taking part. The final matchday was held on 22 October 2011.  Clubs  The championship will be consisting of four round-robins, so each team will play in 20 games. FC Neftchi Kochkor-Ata FC Dordoi Bishkek Abdish-Ata Kant Alga Bishkek Alay Osh FC Issyk Kul  League table   Results table  The results of the first two-round were: The results of the second two-round were:  Top goalscorers  The top scorers are:  References  Kyrgyzstan League 2011 Football League Kyrgyzstan  External links  League at soccerway.com
All Mine is a song by American rapper Kanye West from his eighth studio album, Ye . The song features vocals from American singers Ty Dolla Sign and Ant Clemons. The song's production relies on a simplistic drum-led style and was primarily handled by West, while it was co-produced by Mike Dean and additional production was handled by Francis and the Lights and Scott Carter. West co-wrote the song alongside 13 others, with it later being revealed what lyrics co-writer Consequence was responsible for. On July 20, 2018, West picked All Mine to be the second single from the album. Four days later, the song was released as a single to US rhythmic contemporary radio stations by GOOD Music and Def Jam. It features industrial sounds, alongside organ music. Throughout the song, West defends his dating preferences as well as taking a look at various dating choices and responding to criticism. Controversial lyrics are included within it in reference to Khlo Kardashian's relationship with Tristan Thompson, which she seemingly responded to via Snapchat. All Mine received generally positive reviews from music critics. While most commented on its sexual nature, some critics praised the...
Svein Norman Hansen was a Norwegian ice hockey player. He played for the Norwegian national ice hockey team, and participated at the Winter Olympics in 1964, 1968 and 1972. He played a total of 69 matches in the Olympics and world championships for the national team. Playing for the Norwegian club Vlerengens IF, he won the national championship eight times, in 1962, 1963, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1969 and 1970. He died in Lillestrm on 14 August 2012.  References   External links  Svein Hansen at Olympedia Svein Hansen at InterSportStats
Martin Lachkovics is an Austrian athlete and bobsledder. He represented Austria in athletics at two consecutive Olympic Games, in 1996 and 2000. He has competed in bobsled since 2006. His best finish in the Bobsleigh World Cup was third twice in the two-man event Calgary - November 2007, Cortina d'Ampezzo - January 2008. Lachkovics' best finish at the FIBT World Championships was sixth in the two-man event at St. Moritz in 2007.  References  Martin Lachkovics at the International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation Martin Lachkovics at Olympics at Sports-Reference.com
Konstantin Shayne born Konstantin Veniaminovich Olkenitski Russian:   , November 29, 1888 - November 15, 1974 was a Russian-American actor.  Biography  Shayne was born in Kharkov, Russian Empire to the family of Veniamin Olkenitsky-Nikulin, a Jewish actor. His siblings were actress Tamara Shayne and writers Lev and Yuriy Nikulin. World War I intervened before he could join the Moscow Arts Theatre, and during the conflict he fought with General Wrangel and the White Armies. Shayne was married two times and he also had children. Shayne emigrated to the United States in 1928, travelling as a second-class passenger on board the SS Berengaria, which arrived at the Port of New York on September 14, 1928. He was listed as Konstantin Schein, an artist residing in Berlin, Germany. As an actor, Shayne performed in movies such as None but the Lonely Heart and The Stranger , starring Orson Welles. He performed in The Secret Life of Walter Mitty , which featured Danny Kaye in the lead role. His performance in For Whom the Bell Tolls was cut from the final release. In his penultimate film appearance...
Osteen or O'Steen is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: Angie O'Steen, American politician Champ Osteen , former baseball shortstop Claude Osteen , left-handed former baseball pitcher Cincinnati Reds, Washington Senators, LA Dodgers, Houston Astros, St. Louis Cardinals, Chicago White Sox Darrell Osteen , right-handed former baseball pitcher Dwayne O'Steen , American professional football player John Osteen , first pastor of Lakewood Church in Houston, Texas Joel Osteen , senior pastor of Lakewood Church in Houston, Texas Sam O'Steen , American film editor and director Shyril O'Steen , American former competitive rower Victoria Osteen , wife of Joel Osteen William Lindsay Osteen Sr. , judge in North Carolina, USA William Lindsay Osteen Jr. , judge in North Carolina, USA
A good conduct knotloop is an award device of the Department of the Army which denotes additional decorations of the Army Good Conduct Medal.  History  Good conduct loops were first created in 1941 and were based on the concept of the enlistment bar. Good Conduct Loops have remained the primary method of displaying multiple bestowals of the Army Good Conduct Medal, and may be said to show how many hitches a soldier has served. The current U.S. Army policy is to award the medal after every three years of qualifying service. Good conduct loops are worn on a clasp attached to the service ribbon and suspension ribbon of the Good Conduct Medal. A Good Conduct Loop comprises a clasp with several inscribed loops. The second award of a Good Conduct Medal would display a bronze clasp with two loops, the third would show a bronze clasp with three loops, and so on. At six loops, the clasp changes to silver, and then at eleven loops the clasp changes to gold. Thus, a silver clasp with two loops would denote the seventh award of the Good Conduct Medal while a gold clasp with five loops would indicate the fifteenth award of the Good Conduct Medal, which is the highest...
Sukima is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Yan Gao. It was serialized in Enterbrain's seinen manga magazine Comic Beam from April 2023 to May 2025, with its chapters compiled into four tankbon volumes. The series is based on the author's experiences as a Taiwanese exchange student in Okinawa.  Synopsis  Yang Yang is a university student in Taipei who desires to not be alone. Her grandmother recently just passed away, and the man she had feelings for is in a relationship with another girl. These incidents make her depressed, and lead Yang to move to Okinawa as an exchange student in order to find herself.  Publication  Written and illustrated by Yan Gao, Sukima was serialized in Enterbrain's seinen manga magazine Comic Beam from April 12, 2023, to May 12, 2025. Its chapters were compiled into four tankbon volumes released from February 12 to June 12, 2025.  Reception  The series has been recommended by film director Hirokazu Kore-eda and manga artist Hisashi Eguchi. The series was ranked second in the 2026 edition of Takarajimasha's Kono Manga ga Sugoi! guidebook's list of the best manga for female readers. The series was ranked second in Freestyle...
Billy Joe Gibson was an American football defensive back and end in the National Football League for the Cleveland Rams and the Washington Redskins . Gibson also played in the All-America Football Conference for the Brooklyn Dodgers. He played college football at the University of Tulsa.  References 
Jewish geography is a popular game sometimes played when Jews meet each other for the first time and try to identify people they know in common. The game has become something of an informal social custom in the Jewish community, and it is often surprisingly easy for strangers who play it to discover mutual acquaintances and establish instant context and connection. American social historian Etan Diamond notes that non-Jews often find it astonishing that such links are made so easily, but given both the relative smallness of the Jewish community-and the even smaller size of the Orthodox Jewish community-and the extensive overlapping social circles within these communities, it should not surprise too much. He gives an example Jewish geography conversation of You're from ? Do you know ? getting a response of Sure, he sits behind my uncle in synagogue or I met her once at a youth group convention.  Similar games  An Israeli version of the game, pitsuchim, has been a common pastime among young Israeli backpackers traveling the world, taking its name from a 1980s television quiz show. Another similar social game called The...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 204 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Internet in India, which began in 1986 with access only to the educational and research community and on 15 August 1995 with access to the general public. In 2025, India has over 1 billion internet users. As of 2025, 7 in 10 Indians are now online, with 70 internet penetration. It is reported that in 2022 an average mobile Internet consumption in India was 19.5GB per month and the mobile data usage per month rose from 4.5 exabytes in 2018 to 14.4 exabytes in 2022. The Indian Government has embarked on initiatives such as Digital India, BharatNet, Common Service Centres, UPI instant payment system, Startup India, and others to further expedite the growth of internet-based ecosystems.  History   1986: Early days and ERNET  In 1986, the history of the Internet in India began with the launch of the Educational Research Network , The network was made available only to educational and research communities. even though the early pre-internet computer networks were operated in India since the late 1970s by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and the Indian Military. along with general-use computer networks such as INDONET, NICNET, and VIKRAM. ERNET was initiated by the Department...
In Ethiopia, the Internet penetration rate is 25 as of January 2022, and it is currently attempting a broad expansion of access throughout the country. These efforts have been hampered by the largely rural makeup of the Ethiopian population and the government's refusal to permit any privatization of the telecommunications market. Only 360,000 people had Internet access in 2008, a penetration rate of 0.4. The state-owned Ethio Telecom previously known as Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation  is the sole Internet service provider in the country. Ethio Telecom comes in at very high prices which makes it difficult for private users to purchase it. Internet cafs are the main source of access in urban areas, and an active community of bloggers and online journalists now play an important role in offering alternative news sources and venues for political dialogue. However, three quarters of the country's Internet cafs are in the capital city, Addis Ababa, and even there, access is often slow and unreliable. A test conducted by a Media Ethiopia researcher in July 2007 determined that the average connectivity speed was 5 kBs and that Internet service in most cafs was unavailable...
Internet safety, also known as online safety, cyber safety, and e-safety, refers to policies, practices and processes that reduce harms to people that are enabled by the misuse of the Internet. This misuse is due to the ease of which information is documented and spread online. Private information may be put at risk if safety measures are not properly put in place. Harm can also be done through uploaded media, which may contain inappropriate content or targeted attacks. Governments, and organizations have expressed concerns about the safety of children, teenagers and the elderly using the Internet. Many businesses and organizations have been faced with cybercrime and cyberattacks, including Internet fraud, which have resulted in negative impacts including to finances, customer security, and client trust. Internet security measures and trust and safety teams are part of efforts to improve Internet safety. Common information security breaches include:  Phishing  Phishing is a type of scam where the scammers disguise themselves as a trustworthy source in an attempt to obtain private information such as passwords, credit card information, etc. through the internet. These fake websites...
Internet in Brazil was launched in 1988, becoming commercially available in May 1995. As of October 2025, Brazil ranked fifth in the world with 185 million internet users. The country had an internet penetration rate of 86.6 as of January 2024. In December 2025, Brazil ranked 26th in the Ookla Broadband Ranking , with a median speed of 222.06 Mbits. Also, as per December 2021, Brazil had 41,4 million fixed broadband accesses, most of them FTTH. However, as per 2020, most Brazilians access the Internet through a mobile connection, with more than 200 million mobile internet access .  History  Late 1969, one of many offices funded by the United States Department of Defense Advanced Research Project Agency invested in a project that expanded the knowledge of network connectivity to many globally sponsored universities and research institutions, including Brazil. In 1979, Brazilian universities collaborated their knowledge of computer networks and created the National Laboratory of Computer Networks to trade information within local laboratories. By 1984, LARC focused on providing network links to institutions in Rio de Janeiro...
The Internet in Laos was first introduced in 1997, with the two commercial ISP services starting in 1999, specifically PlaNet Computers and GlobeNet. These supported a rapid growth of internet cafes across the country to service tourists, which incidentally introduced the internet to many English speaking Lao nationals. The introduction of mobile broadband has significantly increased the use of the Internet in Laos since 2008.  Status  Internet users: 707,871 users, 125th in the world 10.7 of the population, 169th in the world . Fixed broadband: 96,291 subscribers, 101st in the world 1.5 of the population, 134th in the world . Mobile broadband: 50,648 subscribers, 124th in the world 0.8 of the population, 134th in the world . Facebook: 150,000 subscribers . Internet hosts: 1,532, 166th in the world . IPv4: 54,784 addresses allocated, 0 of the worldwide total, 8.3 addresses per 1000 people . Top level domain: .la On 4 July 2013, The Lao Ministry of Post and Telecommunication's National Internet Center announced that it had launched the Lao Computer Emergency Response Team , a branch of government focused on battling cyber crime...
Internet art is a form of new media art distributed via the Internet. This form of art circumvents the traditional dominance of the physical gallery and museum system. In many cases, the viewer is drawn into some kind of interaction with the work of art. Artists working in this manner are sometimes referred to as net artists. Net artists may use specific social or cultural internet traditions to produce their art outside of the technical structure of the internet. Internet art is often - but not always - interactive, participatory, and multimedia-based. Internet art can be used to spread a message, either political or social, using human interactions. Typically, artists find ways to produce art through the use of the internet and the tools that it provides us with. The term Internet art typically does not refer to art that has been simply digitized and uploaded to be viewable over the Internet, such as in an online gallery. Rather, this genre relies intrinsically on the Internet to exist as a whole, taking advantage of such aspects as an interactive interface and connectivity to multiple social and economic cultures and micro-cultures, not only web...
Internet fraud is a type of cybercrime fraud or deception which makes use of the Internet and could involve hiding of information or providing incorrect information for the purpose of tricking victims out of money, property, and inheritance. Internet fraud is not a single crime but covers a range of illegal and illicit actions that are committed in cyberspace. Fraud is differentiated from theft since the victim is deceived into voluntarily providing the information, money or property to the perpetrator. Internet fraud is distinguished by the way it involves temporally and spatially separated offenders. Online fraud appears in many forms, ranging from email spam to online scams. Common cybercrimes involving internet fraud including social engineering, phishing, cryptocurrency frauds, and romance scams such as pig butchering scams. Internet fraud prevention efforts include Internet security measures and Internet safety initiatives. In the FBI's 2017 Internet Crime Report, the Internet Crime Complaint Center received about 300,000 complaints. Victims lost over 1.4 billion in online fraud in 2017. In a 2018 study by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and McAfee...
The Internet checksum, also called the IPv4 header checksum is a checksum used in version 4 of the Internet Protocol to detect corruption in the header of IPv4 packets. It is carried in the IPv4 packet header, and represents the 16-bit result of the summation of the header words. The IPv6 protocol does not use header checksums. Its designers considered that the whole-packet link layer checksumming provided in protocols, such as PPP and Ethernet, combined with the use of checksums in upper-layer protocols such as TCP and UDP, is sufficient. Thus, IPv6 routers are relieved of the task of recomputing the checksum whenever the packet changes, for instance by the lowering of the hop limit counter on every hop. The Internet checksum is mandatory to detect errors in IPv6 UDP packets . The Internet checksum is used to detect errors in ICMP packets .  Computation  The checksum calculation is defined as follows: The checksum field is the 16 bit one's complement of the one's complement sum of all 16 bit words in the header. For purposes of computing the checksum, the value of the checksum field is zero. If there is no corruption, the...
An internet personality, also referred to as an internet celebrity, is an individual who has acquired or developed their fame and notability on the Internet. The growing popularity of social media provides a means for people to reach a large, global audience, and internet personalities are commonly present on large online platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube, which primarily rely on user-generated content. Some internet personalities are known as social media influencers, or simply influencers, due to their social influence online. Certain internet personalities may function as lifestyle gurus promoting a particular lifestyle or attitude. In this capacity they act as key amplifiers of trends across various genres including fashion, cooking, technology, travel, video games, movies, esports, politics, music, sports, and entertainment. As part of influencer marketing, companies and organizations may enlist internet personalities to advertise their products to their fan base and followers on their respective platforms.  History  In 1991, the Internet and the World Wide Web became widely available, leading to the creation of numerous websites dedicated to shared...
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks. Internet may also refer to:  Companies  Internet Co., Ltd., a Japanese software company  Arts and entertainment  The Internet , a soul music band Internet - O Filme, a 2017 Brazilian comedy film The Internet , a 2017 television episode Internet, a song by Post Malone from Hollywood's Bleeding Internet, a song by Lizzo featuring Tierra Whack from My Face Still Hurts from Smiling  Other uses  Internet , by Amazon Internets, a catchphrase to portray someone as ignorant about technology International Project Management Association, known as INTERNET before 1996 see Association for Project Management  See also  Internet protocol suite, a computer networking model Internetwork, any system of interconnected networks Private network, referred to in RFC 1918 as private internets Intranet, a computer network within an organization Internet2, a consortium that develops high bandwidth network applications
The Wayback Machine is a digital archive of the World Wide Web founded by the Internet Archive, an American nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California. Launched for public access on October 25, 2001, the service allows users to go back in time to see how websites looked in the past. Founders Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat developed the Wayback Machine to provide universal access to all knowledge by preserving archived copies of defunct web pages. The name is a reference to the fictional time-traveling device of the same name from the animated cartoon The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends which ran from 1959 to 1964. In a segment of the cartoon titled Peabody's Improbable History, the characters Mr. Peabody and Sherman use the Wayback Machine to travel back in time to witness and participate in famous historical events. The Wayback Machine's earliest archives go back at least to 1995 by the end of 2009, more than 38.2 billion webpages had been saved. As of October 2025, the Wayback Machine has archived more than 1 trillion web pages and well over 99 petabytes of data.  History  The Internet Archive has been archiving cached web pages since...
Indopos is an Indonesian online newspaper based in Tangerang, Banten, and formerly a local daily newspaper in Jakarta. It is currently owned by PT Indonesia Digital Pos, headquartered in Puri Pakkita complex in Tangerang.  History  Indopos newspaper was first published 25 February 2003. It was published by PT Indopos Intermedia Press, a subsidiary of Jawa Pos Group. Indopos at the time was considered as the Jakarta version of Jawa Pos, as Jawa Pos is also owned a number of local newspapers across the country. At the time, Indopos was headquartered in Graha Pena Jawa Pos Jakarta building in West Jakarta. Indopos was circulating mainly within Special Capital Region of Jakarta as well as Banten and West Java province, with total circulation of 103,720 as of 2019. The paper was not published on Sunday. Besides newspaper, it was published a tri-monthly lifestyle magazine iFACE. Indopos ceased publication on 30 December 2020. Its online portal was managed by PT Tunas Intermedia Globe, before it was managed by PT Indonesia Digital Pos.  References   External links  Indopos official website Indoposco e-paper website
Rajapur is a village in Singhpur block of Rae Bareli district, Uttar Pradesh, India. As of 2011, its population is 3,954, in 659 households. It has one primary school and no healthcare facilities. The 1961 census recorded Rajapur as comprising 7 hamlets, with a total population of 1,208 people , in 264 households and 254 physical houses. The area of the village was given as 886 acres. The 1981 census recorded Rajapur as having a population of 1,681 people, in 341 households, and having an area of 357.75 hectares.  References 
Jeremy W. Peters is an American reporter and author for The New York Times. He has covered three presidential elections for the newspaper, most recently the 2020 presidential election. He is an MSNBC contributor, and has also appeared on Washington Week on PBS. In February 2022, he published his first book, Insurgency: How Republicans Lost Their Party and Got Everything They Ever Wanted, which was selected as a New York Times Editor's Choice and was reviewed in The Washington Post and The Guardian. Peters is gay and regularly writes on LGBTQ issues.  Early life and education  Jeremy W. Peters was born in Royal Oak, Michigan. Peters earned his bachelor's degree in 2002 from the University of Michigan. He wrote for The Michigan Daily from 1999 to 2002.  Career  Peters began contributing to The New York Times while completing his degree. as a freelancer. He then worked for two years in the Virgin Islands for The Virgin Islands Daily News before returning to the Times as a reporter for the business and national desks based in Detroit. In 2009, while assigned to the Albany bureau, he was part of the team that won the Pulitzer Prize for breaking news, for its coverage of the sex...
Monir al-Saltaneh was a royal consort of Naser al-Din Shah Qajar of Iran . She was the Shah's temporary wife, which means she was classificed as a concubine. She was known for her many donations. A street and the city quarter Monirieh in Tehran were named after her.  References 
Ireby Old Church is a redundant Anglican church, of which only the chancel remains. It stands in an isolated position 1 mile to the west of the hamlet of Ireby, Cumbria, England. It is recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade I listed building, and is under the care of the Churches Conservation Trust.  History  The church was built in the 12th century, altered in 1845-46, and restored in 1880 by Ewan Christian. In 1845-46 the nave, north aisle and porch were demolished. At this time the font, piscina and some carvings were removed to a new church built in the village. The church was declared redundant on 11 June 1971, and was vested in the Trust on 7 November 1972.  Architecture  Ireby Old Church is constructed in blocks of sandstone and limestone, and it has a green slate roof. Only the former two-bay chancel remains. At its west end is an open bellcote. The door is at the west end in the blocked former chancel arch. It has a 19th-century surround over which is a re-used 12th-century tympanum and a built-in medieval grave slab. In the north wall is a blocked doorway, and a square window dating from the 18th century. The east...
Pamphilus the Theologian was probably a late sixth century Palestinian compiler writing in the aftermath of the Council of Chalcedon and the fall-out this produced in the eastern Christian provinces. His work is in the form of questions and answers illustrating the points at issue at the Council and subsequently, i. e. in the form of chapters dealing with points such as: hypostasis, ousia, physis, and other points at debate between neo-Chalcedonians and Monophysites. The philosophical implication of such terms for Christology is thoroughly developed. The work includes a number of quotations from standard authors such as the Cappadocians, John Chrysostom and Cyril of Alexandria, and also Pseudo-Dionysius, but also from a number of authors condemned at various councils e.g. Apollinarius, Eunomius, Eutyches, Nestorius, Paul of Samosata, Valentinian. Pamphilus is to be distinguished from the earlier Pamphilus of Caesarea, martyr and mentor of the encyclopaedic Christian apologist, Eusebius of Caesarea  Works  Diversorum Postchalcedonensium Auctorum Collectanea I: Pamphili Theologi Opus, ed. Jos H. Declerck Leuven...
The Margraviate of Moravia Czech: Markrabstv moravsk German: Markgrafschaft Mhren was one of the Lands of the Bohemian Crown within the Holy Roman Empire, the Austrian Empire and Austria-Hungary, existing from 1182 to 1918. It was officially administered by a margrave in cooperation with a provincial diet. It was variously a de facto independent state, and also subject to the Duchy, later the Kingdom of Bohemia. It comprised the historical region called Moravia, which lies within the present-day Czech Republic.  Geography  The Margraviate lay east of Bohemia proper, with an area about half that region's size. In the north, the Sudeten Mountains, which extend to the Moravian Gate, formed the border with the Polish Duchy of Silesia, incorporated as a Bohemian crown land upon the 1335 Treaty of Trentschin. In the east and southeast, the western Carpathian Mountains separated it from present-day Slovakia. In the south, the winding Thaya River marked the border with the Duchy of Austria. Moravians, usually considered a Czech people that speak Moravian dialects, made up the main part of the population. According to a 1910 Cisleithanian census, 27.6 identified themselves as German...
Programa Viajero Confiable is a Mexican program which allows members to pass securely through customs and immigration controls in reduced time, by using automated border control systems at select airports. The program, part of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative , was introduced in three airports in 2014 and has since expanded to additional sites.  Description  Like the joint CanadaUS NEUS and the United States' Global Entry and TSA PreCheck programs, Programa Viajero Confiable members traveling via participating airports may use designated lanes which allow them to speedily and securely clear customs, because the Mexican government has already performed a background check on them, and they are considered a trusted traveler. At the participating airports, members may use automated kiosks to scan their passport and fingerprints, and complete an electronic immigration form.  Eligibility  The program is targeted at Mexican citizens, as well as U.S. or Canadian citizens who are members of the Global Entry or NEUS program and are lawful permanent residents of Mexico, membership is valid for five years. Applying for Programa Viajero...
Bakhar is a form of historical narrative written in Marathi prose. Bakhars are one of the earliest genres of medieval Marathi literature. More than 200 bakhars were written in the seventeenth to nineteenth centuries, the most important of them chronicling the deeds of the Maratha ruler Shivaji. Bakhars are considered valuable resources depicting the Maratha view of history.  Etymology  Most scholars believe that the word bakhar is a metathesis of the Arabic-origin word khabar . S. N. Joshi argues that the word is derived from the Persian word khair or bakhair all is well, the end salutation in a letter, since it appears at the end of most texts. Bapuji Sankpal argued that the word is derived from the Sanskrit-origin word akhyayika or it could be bhyaakh .  Style  The principal characteristics of bakhars are that they were written in prose, had a forceful style of writing, were of political historical nature which appealed to Maratha patriotism, were often commissioned by a patron, displayed an acceptance of tradition and also a belief in the supernatural. Early bakhars were sparsely written and contained a number of words of Persian derivation...
Redhorn may mean: Red Horn Caradhras, a fictional location: a great peak in the Misty Mountains in The Lord of the Rings Redhorn Pass over the Misty Mountains in The Lord of the Rings Redhorn Lake, in Glacier National Park, in the USA state of Montana Redhorn Peak , located in the Livingston Range, Glacier National Park in the USA state of Montana
Yunduan was Qing dynasty imperial prince as Yolo's 18th son and Abatai's grandson. Yunduan was granted a title of Prince Qin of the Second Rank in 1684 and was stripped of all of his titles in 1698. His lineage became extinct because of the lack of a male heir. As Prince Qin of the Second Rank peerage was not given iron-cap status, each successive bearer of the title would hold diminished ranks vis-a-vis his predecessor.  Life  Yunduan was born in 1671 to lady Heeri, Yolo's third primary consort and paternal aunt of Empress iaochengren, Kangxi Emperor's first reigning empress. Yunduan was granted a title 'Prince Qin of the Second Rank' in 1684. In 1690, after Nuoni discovered that Yolo had sown discord among the regents and princes and, moreover, had framed Nuoni for unwilling to demonstrate filial piety, Yunduan was downgraded to prince of the fourth rank along with his father, who became posthumously demoted to Prince An of the Second Rankand brother, who became demoted to grace defender duke without an ability to pass the title on his descendants. Yunduan was stripped of his titles in...
Ray Baxter was an Australian rules footballer who played with Footscray in the Victorian Football League  Biography  Recruited locally from Kingsville, Baxter was a follower and key position player. He topped Footscray's goal-kicking in the 1959 VFL season, with 35 goals, six of which came in a loss to Essendon at Windy Hill. His efforts were rewarded with selection in the Victorian team which played Tasmania. Baxter was the club's leading goal-kicker again in 1960, managing 37 goals, the seventh-biggest tally in the league that season. Playing as a centre half-back, Baxter was a member of the Footscray team which won the 1963 Night Premiership. Following his departure from Footscray, Baxter served as Captain Coach of Victorian Football Association club Mordialloc from 1965 to 1967. He was awarded Best  Fairest in both 1965  1966. Baxter was successful in his career after football, being employed by Mazda in 1963, and becoming general manager by 1979. In 1987, he brought the Lease Plan to Australia as the Managing Director. Baxter was appointed Lease Plan Chairman for Australia  New Zealand in 1997, he held this position until...
Nemophora karafutonis is a moth of the family Adelidae or fairy longhorn moths. It was described by Shnen Matsumura in 1932. It is found in the Russian Far East and Japan. The length of the forewings is 7-8.5 mm for males and 7-7.5 mm for females.  Subspecies  Nemophora karafutonis karafutonis Nemophora karafutonis moriokensis  References 
Hardening is the process by which something becomes harder or is made harder. Hardening may refer to: Hardening , a process used to increase the hardness of a metal Hardening or cold hardening, a process in which a plant undergoes physiological changes to mitigate damage from cold temperatures Target hardening, strengthening of the security of a building or installation to protect it from attack Hardening , the process of securing a system against attack Sclerotization, a biochemical process forming cuticle in arthropods  See also  All pages with titles containing Hardening Harden Hardness, a measure of resistance to deformation
Al-Basra Sport Club is an Iraqi football team based in Al-Jamhoriya, Basra.  History   in Premier League  The Al-Basra team played in the Iraqi Premier League for the first time in the 2002-03 season, and they weren't good enough, and it was at the bottom of the standings, but there was no relegation in the league. So they returned in the next season with the same level and bottom of the standings, and there was no relegation either, where the league stopped due to the war and in their third season In the Premier League, the 2004-05 season was a bad season for the team as well, and in the end, the team was eliminated from the Group Stage and relegated to the Iraqi First Division League.  Managerial history  Bassam Khairallah Mustafa Mejaiser Hussam Lafta Mohammed Khudhair  See also  1999-2000 Iraq FA Cup 2001-02 Iraq FA Cup 2002-03 Iraq FA Cup  References   External links  Al-Basra SC on Goalzz.com Iraq Clubs- Foundation Dates Al-Basra Clubs Union
Doriot, Flandrin  Parant was a French car maker based in Courbevoie, Seine between 1906 and 1926. Auguste Doriot and Ludovic Flandrin had both worked for Peugeot and then Clment-Bayard before setting up their own car making company in 1906. Their main product was a single cylinder light car and was sold as a Doriot-Flandrin. In 1908 they were joined by Alexandre and Jules-Ren Parant and a new company was formed including all the names. Four-cylinder models were now made with Chapuis-Dornier engines alongside the single-cylinder cars. The singles were discontinued in 1910 and a smaller 1592 cc four joined the line up. D.F.P. started to make their own engines in 1912. The 2-litre 1215 was used by W. O. Bentley in a tuned version with aluminium alloy pistons to race at Brooklands. The aluminium pistons were fitted to some 1240 hp production cars from 1914. This car also had electric starting. After World War I D.F.P. started to fit their cars with proprietary engines mainly from both Altos and Sargant. In 1923 they started to make their own engines again fitting them to the 1924 cc 1350 model. A new light car was also introduced as the D.F. Petite with 1098 cc made by...
Half of Me is a song by Swedish singer Greczula, released as a single on 31 January 2026. The song was performed in Melodifestivalen 2026. It qualified for the final, where it placed second with 134 points. It debuted at number six in Sweden.  Charts   Certifications   References 
Anatomy of a Genocide: The Life and Death of a Town called Buczacz is a 2018 book by historian Omer Bartov exploring ethnic relations between Poles, Ukrainians, and Jews in the town of Buczacz with a focus on the Holocaust.  Background  The author, Omer Bartov, is a professor of European history at Brown University. His mother was raised in the town of Buczacz, then part of Poland, in the interwar era, and emigrated to Israel before the war the rest of her family was murdered during the Holocaust. Bartov began work on the book in the mid-1990s after interviewing his mother and realizing that genocide was determined not only by the encounter between external killers and local residents, but also by the existing social fabric long before the arrival of the gnocidaires. While writing the book, he ended up with too much material and decided to split the project into two books, one that focused on the experiences of those who lived in Buczacz 1848-1914 and later emigrated, which he plans to publish separately.  Publication history  The book was published in English by Simon  Schuster in 2018. In 2019, the book was published in Polish translation by...
Stonewall is a 2015 American coming-of-age drama film directed by Roland Emmerich, written by Jon Robin Baitz, and starring Jeremy Irvine, Jonny Beauchamp, Joey King, Caleb Landry Jones, Matt Craven, Jonathan Rhys Meyers, and Ron Perlman. The film is set in and around the 1969 Stonewall riots, a violent clash with police that sparked the gay liberation movement in New York City. Released on September 25, 2015, by Roadside Attractions, it received largely negative reviews.  Plot  Shortly before fleeing the conservative countryside in the late 1960s and moving to New York City, Danny Winters, a gay boy from Indiana, is discovered by friends while making love with his boyfriend. His father is upset, and while his mother is ambivalent as she loves her son, she does not stand up to her husband either. His father then refuses to sign Danny's scholarship application for Columbia University where Danny has been accepted, but Danny departs for New York anyway, leaving behind his supportive little sister, Phoebe. After reaching Christopher Street in Greenwich Village, he is befriended by a multiracial group of young, gay, and genderfluid street people and drag queens. He witnesses police...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 215 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Kylin Chinese:  pinyin: Qln Wade-Giles: Ch'i-lin is an operating system developed by academics at the National University of Defense Technology in the People's Republic of China since 2001. It is named after the mythical beast qilin. The first versions were based on FreeBSD and were intended for use by the Chinese military and other government organizations. With version 3.0, Kylin became Linux-based, and there is a version called NeoKylin which was announced in 2010. By 2019, the NeoKylin variant was compatible with more than 4,000 software and hardware products, and it ships pre-installed on most computers sold in China. Together, Kylin and Neokylin have 90 market share of the government sector. A separate project using Ubuntu as the base Linux operating system was announced in 2013. The first version of Ubuntu Kylin was released in April 2013. In August 2020, v10 of Kylin OS was launched. It is compatible with 10,000 hardware and software products, and it supports Google's Android ecosystem. In July 2022, an open-source version of Kylin titled openKylin was released.  FreeBSD version  Development of Kylin began in 2001, when the National University of Defense Technology...
Haiku, originally OpenBeOS, is a free and open-source operating system for personal computers. It is a community-driven continuation of BeOS and aims to be binary-compatible with it, but is largely a reimplementation with the exception of certain components like the Deskbar. The Haiku project began in 2001, supported by the nonprofit Haiku Inc., and the operating system remains in beta.  History and project  On 17 August 2001 Palm, Inc. announced the purchase of Be, Inc., marking the end of BeOS development. The day after, Michael Phipps started the OpenBeOS project to support the BeOS user community by creating an open-source, backward-compatible replacement for BeOS. Palm refused to license the BeOS code to a third-party, meaning that OpenBeOS had to be reverse-engineered. In 2003, Phipps founded the non-profit organization Haiku, Inc. in Rochester, New York, United States, to financially support development. In 2004, the project held its first North American developers' conference, WalterCon it was also announced on this day that OpenBeOS was renamed to Haiku to avoid infringing on Palm's trademarks. The BeUnited.org nonprofit organization, which promoted open standards for...
Tails, or The Amnesic Incognito Live System, is a security-focused Debian-based Linux distribution running on a computer, aimed at preserving privacy and anonymity against surveillance. It connects to the Internet exclusively through the anonymity overlay network Tor. The system is designed to be booted as a live DVD or live USB and never writes to the hard drive or SSD, leaving no digital footprint on the machine unless explicitly told to do so. In 2024, Tails merged with the Tor Project.  History  Tails was first released on June 23, 2009. It is the next iteration of development on Incognito, a discontinued Gentoo-based Linux distribution. The original project was called Amnesia. The operating system was born when Amnesia was merged with Incognito. The Tor Project provided financial support for its development in the beginnings of the project. Tails also received funding from the Open Technology Fund, Mozilla, and the Freedom of the Press Foundation. Laura Poitras, Glenn Greenwald, Bruce Schneier and Barton Gellman have each said that Tails was an important tool they used in their work with National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden. From release 3.0 onwards...
OS is an Android-based operating system developed by Hong Kong-based Chinese mobile phone manufacturer Infinix Mobile, a subsidiary of Transsion Holdings. The operating system is developed for use in the company's smartphones and tablet computers. Debuted initially as UI in 2015, the operating system changed its name to OS in 2016. Claims from the company about unique user customization capabilities are made. As with the original Android OS, OS supports a wide range of customizations to the system interface. The original UI 1.0 is based on Android 5.1. Later releases are based on newer Android operating systems. The operating system includes pre-installed applications in all of its versions.  History   Version history   See also  Android, the operating system OS is based on HiOS, Transsion's other Android skin similar to OS and itelOS List of custom Android distributions Android version history  References 
The usage share of an operating system is the percentage of computers running that operating system . These statistics are estimates as usage data is difficult to obtain and measure. Reliable primary sources are limited and data collection methodology is not formally agreed upon. Devices connecting to the World Wide Web log which operating system they are using, and so are an approximate measure of OS usage among consumer devices. As of December 2025, among all devices Android, which uses the Linux kernel, is the world's most common operating system to connect to the web with 34.9 of the global market, followed by Windows with 29.98, iOS with 16.81, macOS with 2.03, and other operating systems with 9.06 total. Between different classes of devices: For smartphones and other mobile devices, Android has 72 share of traffic, and Apple's iOS has 28. For desktop computers and laptops, Microsoft Windows has 62.16, followed by unknown operating systems at 18.75, Mac OS at 14.58, desktop Linux at 3.09, then Google's ChromeOS at 1.42, as of June 2026. For tablets, Apple's iPadOS has 51.23 share and Android has 48.61 worldwide. Of the top 500 most powerful...
An operating system shell is a computer program that provides relatively broad and direct access to the system on which it runs. The term shell refers to how it is a relatively thin layer around an operating system. Most shells are command-line interface programs. Some graphical user interfaces also include shells.  Overview  Operating systems provide various services to their users, including file management, process management , batch processing, and operating system monitoring and configuration. Most operating system shells are not direct interfaces to the underlying kernel, even if a shell communicates with the user via peripheral devices attached to the computer directly. Shells are actually special applications that use the kernel API in just the same way as it is used by other application programs. A shell manages the user-system interaction by prompting users for input, interpreting their input, and then handling output from the underlying operating system . Since the operating system shell is actually an application, it may easily be replaced with another similar application for most...
Nobara Linux is a Linux distribution based on Fedora Linux. It is developed by Thomas Crider, otherwise more colloquially referred to as Glorious Eggroll, who is also known for developing Proton-GE, a modification of Valve Corporation's compatibility layer, widely used for running Windows games on Linux.  History  Nobara Linux was first released on July 10, 2022. It was developed and maintained by Thomas Crider, previously employed as a software maintenance engineer at Red Hat, working in Denver, Colorado, United States. According to Crider in a YouTube interview, the idea for Nobara Linux originated from his efforts to fix the gaming issues his father encountered on Windows. Frustrated with the recurring problems and attempts to resolve them manually, Crider decided to create a Linux-based environment preconfigured for gaming, including compatibility lists and automated setups, leading to the development of Nobara Linux. On May 13, 2025, version 42 was released and version 41 received these updates as rolling release updates making Nobara Linux officially a rolling release distribution. Brave replaced Firefox as the default browser. The latest version, 43, was released on December...
Darwin is the core Unix-like operating system of macOS, iOS, watchOS, tvOS, iPadOS, audioOS, visionOS, and bridgeOS. It previously existed as an independent open-source operating system, first released by Apple in 2000. It is composed of code derived from NeTSTEP, FreeBSD and other BSD operating systems, Mach, and other free software projects' code, as well as code developed by Apple. Darwin's unofficial mascot is Hexley the Platypus. Darwin is mostly POSI-compatible, but has never, by itself, been certified as compatible with any version of POSI. Starting with Leopard, macOS has been certified as compatible with the Single UNI Specification version 3 .  History  The heritage of Darwin began with Unix derivatives supplemented by aspects of NeT's NeTSTEP operating system later, since version 4.0, known as OPENSTEP, first released in 1989. After Apple bought NeT in 1996, it announced it would base its next operating system on OPENSTEP. This was developed into Rhapsody in 1997, Mac OS  Server 1.0 in 1999, Mac OS  Public Beta in 2000, and Mac OS  10.0 in 2001. In 1999, Apple announced it would release the source code for the Mach 2.5 microkernel, BSD Unix 4.4 OS...
This is a list of Microsoft written and published operating systems. For the codenames that Microsoft gave their operating systems, see Microsoft codenames. For another list of versions of Microsoft Windows, see, List of Microsoft Windows versions.  MS-DOS  See MS-DOS Versions for a full list.  Windows   Windows 1.0 until 11   Windows 1011 and Windows Server 201620192022   Windows Mobile  Windows Mobile 2003 Windows Mobile 2003 SE Windows Mobile 5 Windows Mobile 6  Windows Phone   box gaming  box system software box 360 system software box One and box Series S system software  OS2   Unix and Unix-like  enix Nokia  platform Azure Sphere SONiC Windows Subsystem for Linux Azure Sphere OS Azure Linux  Other operating systems  MS-Net LAN Manager MIDAS Singularity Midori Zune KIN OS Nokia Asha platform Barrelfish Novell Netware  Time line   See also  Microsoft and open source - Relationship between the technology company and the open source software paradigm List of Microsoft topics - Overview of and topical guide to MicrosoftPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets List of operating systems...
Inferno is a MIT Licensed distributed operating system started in 1995 at Bell Labs, which is now held by Vita Nuova Holdings and maintained by Terzarima Systems. Inferno was based on the experience gained with Plan 9 from Bell Labs, and the further research of Bell Labs into operating systems, languages, on-the-fly compilers, graphics, security, networking and portability.  Name  The name of the operating system, many of its associated programs, and that of Vita Nuova were inspired by Dante Alighieri's Divine Comedy. In Italian, Inferno means hell, of which there are nine circles in Dante's Divine Comedy. Inferno64 is a continuation of Inferno for 64-bit edge computing platforms.  Design principles  Inferno was created in 1995 by members of the ATT Bell Labs Computing Sciences Research Center to bring ideas derived from their previous operating system, Plan 9 from Bell Labs, to a wider range of devices and networks. Lucent Technologies, the successor to that arm of ATT, closed the Bell Labs Computing Sciences Research Center in 2005. Inferno is a distributed operating system based on three principles: Resources as files: all resources are represented as files within a...
Zephyr is a small real-time operating system for connected, resource-constrained and embedded devices supporting multiple architectures and released under the Apache License 2.0. Zephyr includes a kernel, and all components and libraries, device drivers, protocol stacks, file systems, and firmware updates, needed to develop full application software. It is named after Zephyrus, the ancient Greek god of the west wind.  History  Zephyr originated from Virtuoso RTOS for digital signal processors . In 2001, Wind River Systems acquired Belgian software company Eonic Systems, the developer of Virtuoso. In November 2015, Wind River Systems renamed the operating system to Rocket, made it open-source and royalty-free. Compared to Wind River's other RTOS, VxWorks, Rocket had much smaller memory needs, especially suitable for sensors and single-function embedded devices. Rocket could fit into as little as 4 KB of memory, while VxWorks needed 200 KB or more. In February 2016, Rocket became a hosted collaborative project of the Linux Foundation under the name Zephyr. Wind River Systems contributed the Rocket kernel to Zephyr, but still provided...
Charles Grant was a Canadian salesman and human rights activist. He left home early to travel and eventually became a diamond broker in Vienna. In 1938 he was arrested by the Nazis for currency speculation and spent the entire war in internment camps. Charlie Grant was also telecasted on CBC for this war. He is portrayed by R. H. Thomson in the fictionalized account of his war experiences in Charlie Grant's War which aired 1985 on CBC.  References 
Aleksandar Prijovi Serbian Cyrillic:  pjo, pronounced  born 21 April 1990 is a former professional footballer who played as a striker. Born in Switzerland, Prijovi played for both his country of birth and Serbia as a youth international, before switching to represent the latter at senior level.  Club career   Early career  Prijovi started his career as a youth player with his hometown club St. Gallen but moved to Italy at the age of 16 to start his football career with Italian side Parma, making the first appearance of his career as a substitute for Parma on 27 April 2008 in a match against Reggina. Prijovi's contract with Parma finished at the end of the 2007-08 Serie A season and he rejected the offer of a new one-year deal with the club.  Derby County  Prijovi went on trial with English Championship side Derby County where he caught the eye by scoring a hat-trick as Derby's academy side beat Arsenal youth 4-1. Derby offered Prijovi a two-year contract. He provisionally signed for Derby on 7 August 2008, subject to international clearance. His full signing was delayed by issues over international clearance, firstly...
Mahesh Bhupathi and Michal Llodra were the defending champions, but Llodra chose not to participate. Bhupathi played alongside Denis Istomin, but they lost in the quarterfinals to Rohan Bopanna and Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi. Bopanna and Qureshi went on to win the title, defeating Daniel Nestor and Nenad Zimonji in the final, 6-4, 6-3.  Seeds   Draw  Key  Draw   Qualifying   Seeds   Qualifiers  Nikolay Davydenko  Victor Hnescu  Qualifying draw   External links  Main draw
Ichio or Ichi may refer to:  People  Ichio Asukata , Japanese politician and mayor of Yokohama from 1963 to 1978 Ichio Mori, husband of Japanese actress Keiko Tsushima and former director of Tokyo Broadcasting System kubo Ichi, Governor of Tokyo from 1872 to 1875  Other uses  Ichio Kusakari, a fictional character in the 2000 Hong Kong film Born to Be King Ichio Station, a train station in Takatori, Nara Prefecture, Japan  See also  Ichir Itch.io
This is a list of Royal Danish Army regiments that have existed since the 15th century. Most formations have changed names several times during their existence. Listed here are commonly used names.  Infantry  Regiments disbanded, merged or amalgamated in the modern era or still active: Regiments disbanded before the modern era:  Cavalry  Regiments disbanded in the modern era or still present: Regiments disbanded before the modern era: Royal Horse Guards 1st Dragoon Regiment 2nd Dragoon Regiment 3rd Dragoon Regiment , merged with 5th Dragoon Regiment in 1932 to form the Jutland Dragoon Regiment 4th Dragoon Regiment 5th Dragoon Regiment , merged with 3rd Dragoon Regiment in 1932 to form the Jutland Dragoon Regiment 6th Dragoon Regiment , merged into 3rd Dragoon Regiment 3rd Zealand National Mounted Regiment Holstein Lancer Regiment Zealand Dragoon Regiment Zealand Cuirassier Regiment Schleswig Cuirassier Regiment Oldenburg Cuirassier Regiment  Artillery and other regiments   Artillery  Fortress Artillery...
Naseb Fik Maltese pronunciation:  transl. I Think of You is a song by Maltese singer Aidan released on 19 March 2021. It was his first song written in the Maltese language and was produced by Boban Apostolov. Naseb Fik received positive reviews upon its release and reached number one on Malta's singles charts. The song was praised for its catchiness and for being a rare example of a pop song in the country written entirely in Maltese, though the song received criticism due to allegations of plagiarism. It was included in the singer's 2023 debut album This Is Aidan.  Background and release  The song is about a developing relationship that is taking root and was produced by Macedonian musician Boban Apostolov who Aidan stated knows the industry very well. Aidan premiered it at the 2021 edition of Malta's national song festival Muika Muika. The song was written in Maltese as he said the country did not have a radio pop hit in the language. He stated in an interview that he had not performed or written in Maltese before and that the festival seemed like the right time to give it a shot. He succeeded to the final of the competition before being eliminated...
Joachim Persson is a Danish badminton player.  Career  Persson was born in Denmark but his family moved to Germany in his early years. He began to playing badminton in Trittau, Germany together with his parents. As German player, he helped the German team to win the mixed team title at the 2001 European Junior Championships, also won a silver medal in the singles event. In 2002, he moved back to Denmark and started to practice at Brndby. He played the 2006 IBF World Championships in men's singles and he was defeated in the third round by Lee Chong Wei 21-16, 21-12. Joachim Persson reached the finals of the Denmark Open Super Series 2008 and lost in the finals to compatriot Peter Gade. In 2004 he won the Irish International, in 2005 the Finnish International Championships and the V Italian International, and in 2006 the Austrian International, the Swedish International and the Finnish International Championships. In 2019, he was banned from badminton tournaments for 18 months and has been ordered to pay costs of US4,500, guilty of four violations of the code of conduct in relation to betting wagering and irregular match results.  Achievements   European... 
The Bharatiya Janata Party - Nagaland tij dnta pari  lit. 'Indian People's Party', or simply BJP Nagaland , is the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party of Nagaland. Its state head office is located at H.No. 235, Upper Agri, Kohima, Nagaland, India. The current president of BJP Nagaland is Benjamin Yepthomi.  History   Rajya Sabha members   In General Election   In State Election   List of Deputy Chief Ministers   See also  Bharatiya Janata Party National Democratic Alliance North East Democratic Alliance Naga People's Front Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party United Democratic Alliance  References 
Ian Livingstone was a noted British development economist.  Early life  Livingstone was born in France to Scottish parents. His family returning to the UK just prior to France falling to the Nazi's 1940. He studied economics at the University of Sheffield graduating with a first class degree. He followed this with post-graduate studies at Yale University.  Career  Livinstone's first proper job was a civil service posting in Salisbury, Rhodesia and this was followed shortly after by his first academic job as one of the first staff in the economics department of Makerere University. After several years there he returned to Sheffield and became a lecturer in economic statistics in his old department. In 1965 he returned to head the economics department at Makerere, and then went on to lead the economic research bureau at the University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania . He also worked in the mid-70s as a research professor in the Institute of Development Studies in Kenya. This was followed by a return to the UK for a brief posting at Newcastle University before moving to the post that was to see him to the end of his career - a professorship...
Derek Whitson is a Canadian ice sledge hockey player. Whitson was born in Chatham, Ontario in 1989, with cerebral palsy. He joined the Canadian Sledge Hockey Team in 2007 after playing sledge hockey in the Windsor Ice Bullets sledge hockey program. He was a member of the Canadian sledge hockey team that won the silver medal at the 2009 World Sledge Hockey Challenge, as well as the one that competed in the 2010 Winter Paralympics. He was also a member of team who won the gold medal in the 2013 IPC Sledge Hockey World Championships in Korea. Whitson also is a player of football 7-a-side, in which he won a bronze medal at the 2007 Pan-American Games in Rio de Janeiro. He is also an avid golfer and artist, in which he has donated pieces of his art to art auctions in support of Canadian athletes.  Personal life  Whitson moved to Medicine Hat, Alberta in 2014 where he then became engaged to Tara Chisholm who is the current coach of the Canada women's national ice sledge hockey team.  References   External links  Derek Whitson - Canada - Para Ice Hockey at the International Paralympic Committee Derek Whitson - Para Ice Hockey at the Canadian Paralympic Committee
C99 is a past version of the C programming language standard. C99 or C-99 may also refer to:  Science and technology  C99, a C compiler for the TI-994A home computer C99, a fragment of the amyloid precursor protein created by beta-secretase C99Shell, also known as C99, is a malicious web shell  Other uses  C99, a model of Beechcraft Model 99 aircraft Convair C-99, a military aircraft Ruy Lopez , a chess opening Minimum Wage Fixing Machinery Convention, 1951 C99, is also known as Coalsack Nebula  See also  HMS Blake , a 1945 British Royal Navy cruiser
Aquihuec is an archaeological site in Argentina. It is located by the city of Chos Mahal in the Neuqun province of Argentina. Aquihuec is the biggest hunter-gatherer burial site in Patagonia. The site is located on top of a mound in a dune and was utilized as an open-air burial site by prehistoric inhabitants of the land. Archaeologists have excavated at least 65 human inhumations at the area. These burials were marked with either large stones or piles of small stones. Many of the graves contained burial goods such as stone pendants, grinding tools, sharp instruments, projectile points, milling tools, lithic spheres, and beads, necklaces, or earrings made from mollusc shells. Some of the skulls found at the site display a circular or pseudocircular body modification of the cranial vault. The site is dated to have been inhabited from around 5000 to around 3000 years before present. Aquihuec was first discovered in 1997 and began excavation in 2003.  References 
Ashley Burdett is a Zimbabwean woman cricketer and former captain of the Zimbabwe women's national cricket team. She captained the Zimbabwe team in the 2013 ICC Women's World Twenty20 Qualifier which was also the inaugural edition of the ICC Women's World Twenty20 Qualifier. Post-cricket, Burdett graduated from the Stellenbosch University and resides in South Africa.  References   External links  Ashley Burdett at Cricinfo
Michel Alexandre Dub was a Canadian outlaw biker and gangster. President of the Sudbury, Ontario chapter of the Satan's Choice Motorcycle Club, Dub committed suicide in jail after being charged with two counts of first-degree murder and the bombing of a police station.  Criminal career   Chapter president  Dub was born in and grew up in Sudbury, a mining city in northern Ontario. Dub became the president of the Sudbury chapter of the Satan's Choice Motorcycle Club. According to his associate, Todd Petahtegoose, Dub murdered a 13-year-old boy in 1986, which he was able to pass off as a suicide. Dub was the prime suspect in the murder of Claude Briere, a locally prominent drug dealer who had been his friend since childhood. Briere disappeared in September 1988. Dub was assisted in killing Briere by Alexander Sretenovic, aka Alex Atso, a hang-around with the Satan's Choice Sudbury chapter. Briere's corpse was discovered in a forest outside of Whitefish on 17 October 1988. The cause of death was by a firearm. Len Isnor of the Ontario Provincial Police 's Anti-Biker Unit called Dub the most dangerous outlaw biker in Ontario. According...
The National Movement for the Liberation of Kosovo Albanian: Lvizja Kombtare pr lirimin e Kosovs, LKK was a radical political movement in Kosovo, as well as a political party after the Kosovo War.  History  The party was founded as an underground movement on 25 May 1993 in Pristina by a faction of the dissident Marxist-Leninist organization People's Movement of Kosovo , the founding base of the Kosovo Liberation Army guerilla movement. It would derive its name from one of the main core marxist organizations that formed LPK, National Liberation Movement of Kosovo and other Albanian Regions Albanian: Lvizja Nacional-lirimtare e Kosovs dhe t Viseve tjetra Shqiptare n Jugosllavi, LNKVSHJ, founded in February 1978 by Metush Krasniqi, Jusuf Grvalla and Sabri Novosella. Just like LPK, the LKK faction advocated the concept of Greater Albania and military action against the Miloevi administration, but contrary to the pacifist policies of the dominant Democratic League of Kosovo and what it perceived as similar tendencies to moderation inside the LPK. After imprisonment of Avni Klinaku by Yugoslavian authorities, Bahri Fazliu would take charge as the leader...
Download Series Volume 3 is a live album by the rock band Grateful Dead. It was recorded on October 26, 1971, at the Palestra in Rochester, New York, and released as a digital download on July 5, 2005. This marks the fifth show with new keyboardist Keith Godchaux, who joined the band due to Ron Pigpen McKernan's declining health. This release presents an almost complete concert, with the exception of Beat It On Down the Line which was played after Loser but was omitted from the album. The album was mastered in HDCD by Jeffrey Norman.  Track listing  Disc one First set: Bertha - 7:38 Playing in the Band - 6:41 Sugaree - 8:09 Me and My Uncle - 3:59 Tennessee Jed - 6:55 Jack Straw - 5:29 Big Railroad Blues - 4:04 Me And Bobby McGee - 6:16 Cumberland Blues - 6:12 Cold Rain And Snow - 5:59 Mexicali Blues - 3:30 Loser - 6:45 Disc two El Paso - 4:43 Comes A Time Hunter, Garcia...
The Western Whirlwind is a 1927 American silent Western film directed by Albert S. Rogell and written by Harrison Jacobs. The film stars Jack Hoxie, Margaret Quimby, Claude Payton, Billy Engle, Edith Murgatroyd and Jack Pratt. The film was released on February 20, 1927, by Universal Pictures.  Plot  As described in a film magazine, Jack Howard, returning to his western home from the war, and learning from his mother that his father, the sheriff, has been killed by an unknown assailant, gets the mayor of Gold Strike to swear him in as sheriff, and he resolves to avenge his father and bring the murderer to justice. However, he is hooted and jeered by the thugs of Gold Strike, headed by Jeff Taylor, whose business is unknown but is always flush with money, and who has just spread a tale of Jack's cowardice in the war. Jack's mother pleads with him for his safety and exacts from him the promise that he will never expose himself to danger, for her sake. He keeps the promise and is bullied and despised as a coward by the townspeople. The gang becomes more insolent, committing depredations and robberies with no interference from the sheriff. Finally the bank is robbed by Taylor, who leaves...
Phoenix Tower is a class A office building located in the city of Bucharest, Romania. It stands at a height of 65 meters and has 15 floors, with a total surface of 11,500 square metres. The building is owned by DEGI, the real estate branch of insurance giants Allianz.  References   External links  Official website
Engineering Mathematics is a branch of applied mathematics, concerning mathematical methods and techniques that are typically used in engineering and industry. Along with fields like engineering physics and engineering geology, both of which may belong in the wider category engineering science, engineering mathematics is an interdisciplinary subject motivated by engineers' needs both for practical, theoretical and other considerations outside their specialization, and to deal with constraints to be effective in their work.  Description  Historically, engineering mathematics consisted mostly of applied analysis, most notably: differential equations real and complex analysis  approximation theory broadly construed, to include asymptotic, variational, and perturbative methods, representations, numerical analysis Fourier analysis potential theory as well as linear algebra and applied probability, outside of analysis. These areas of mathematics were intimately tied to the development of Newtonian physics, and the mathematical physics of that period. This history also left a legacy: until the early 20th century subjects such as classical...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 226 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Arista Networks, Inc. is an American provider of client to cloud networking services for large data centerAI, campus and routing environments.  Corporate history  Arista Networks was founded and incorporated in 2008, evolving from its roots in Arastra, established in 2004. Arista went public as ANET in 2014 and entered the SP 500 in 2018 and was recognized on the 2026 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by revenue. It provides cloud and AI high performance networking. Members of Arista's leadership team have experience in networking and innovation. In June 2014, Arista Networks had its initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANET. In December 2014, Cisco filed two lawsuits against Arista alleging intellectual property infringement., and the United States International Trade Commission issued limited exclusion and cease-and-desist orders concerning two of the features patented by Cisco and upheld an import ban on infringing products. In 2016, on appeal, the ban was reversed following product changes and two overturned Cisco patents, and Cisco's claim was dismissed. In August 2018, Arista agreed to pay Cisco US400 million as...
An embedded operating system is an operating system designed specifically for embedded computer systems. These systems aim to enhance functionality and reliability to perform dedicated tasks. When the multitasking method employed allows for timely task execution, such an OS may qualify as a real-time operating system .  Overview  Embedded operating systems are integral to consumer electronics such as cameras and mobile phones. Additionally, they power automotive electronics, aiding in functions like cruise control and navigation. Moreover, they are essential for factory automation infrastructure. Everyday applications of EOS include office automation devices such as image scanners, photocopiers, and wireless access points. Home automation systems, including security systems, also depend on EOS.  Design  Embedded systems comprise a processor and corresponding software. Embedded software requires storage for executables and temporary data processing during runtime. Embedded systems typically utilize ROM and RAM as main memory components. For functionality, embedded systems necessitate input and output interfaces. Embedded hardware configurations are often unique,...
Porteus is a portable operating system based on Slackware. It does not require installation and can be run from fixed and removable media, such as a USB flash drive or compact disc. Porteus is available in 32-bit and 64-bit versions.  Development  The Porteus project started out as Slax Remix at the beginning of 2010 and was started as a community project using the Zen kernel to improve and update the Slax OS. The community agreed on the new name of the project, Porteus, which was named after 'Portability' and 'Proteus'. Proteus is a Greek god of the sea, capable of changing his form at will, according to the naming announcement on the Porteus forum. The project leader commented on the name, I find this name as a kind of synonym of 'flexibility'. We have portable and flexible features included in one name: Porteus.  Features  Porteus is based on a substantially modified and optimized version of the Linux Live Scripts. It can be run from a disc or USB stick with changes saved onto the portable device or installed on a hard drive. Porteus can even be installed within another system without the need to create a new partition. Porteus...
Amoeba is a distributed operating system developed by Andrew S. Tanenbaum and others at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. The aim of the Amoeba project was to build a timesharing system that makes an entire network of computers appear to the user as a single machine. Development at the Vrije Universiteit was stopped: the source code of the latest version was last modified on 30 July 1996. The Python programming language was originally developed for this platform.  Overview  The goal of the Amoeba project was to construct an operating system for networks of computers that would present the network to the user as if it were a single machine. An Amoeba network consists of a number of workstations connected to a pool of processors, and executing a program from a terminal causes it to run on any of the available processors, with the operating system providing load balancing. Unlike the contemporary Sprite, Amoeba does not support process migration. The workstations would typically function as networked terminals only. Aside from workstations and processors, additional machines operate as servers for files, directory services, TCPIP communications etc. Amoeba is a microkernel...
TempleOS formerly J Operating System, LoseThos, and SparrowOS is a Biblical-themed lightweight operating system designed to be the Third Temple from the Hebrew Bible. It was created by American computer programmer Terry A. Davis, who developed it alone over the course of a decade after a series of manic episodes that he later described as a revelation from God. TempleOS could be considered as an example of coding as an art form, with the nature of his psychological instability and its influence over the project lending to comparisons to similar outsider art. The system was characterized as a modern x86-64 Commodore 64, using an interface similar to a mixture of DOS and Turbo C. Davis proclaimed that the system's features, such as its 640480 resolution, 16-color display, and single-voice audio, were designed according to explicit instructions from God. It was programmed with a custom JIT variant of C in place of BASIC, and included an original flight simulator, compiler, and kernel. First released in 2005 as J Operating System, TempleOS was renamed in 2013 and was last updated in 2017.  Background  Terry A. Davis was an electrical engineer from Wisconsin. He...
A hypervisor, also known as a virtual machine monitor , is a type of computer software, firmware, or hardware that creates and runs virtual machines. A computer on which a hypervisor runs one or more virtual machines is called a host machine or virtualization server, and each virtual machine is called a guest machine. The hypervisor presents the guest operating systems with a virtual operating platform and manages the execution of the guest operating systems. Unlike an emulator, the guest executes most instructions on the native hardware. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share the virtualized hardware resources: for example, Linux, Windows, and macOS instances can all run on a single physical x86 machine. This contrasts with operating system-level virtualization, where all instances must share a single kernel, though the guest operating systems can differ in user space, such as different Linux distributions with the same kernel. The term hypervisor is a variant of supervisor, a traditional term for the kernel of an operating system: the hypervisor is the supervisor of the supervisors, with hyper- used as a stronger variant of...
The term business operating system refers to standard, enterprise-wide collection of business processes used in many diversified industrial companies. The definition has also been extended to include the common structure, principles and practices necessary to drive the organization. Diversified industrial companies like Ingersoll Rand, Honeywell, and Danaher have adopted a standard, common collection of business processes andor business process improvement methodologies which they use to manage strategy development and execution. In the case of Danaher, the business system is a core part of the company's culture and is seen as one of the key drivers of corporate performance. The objectives of such systems are to ensure daily work is focused on the organisation's strategic objectives and is done in the most efficient way. The systems deal with the questions why , what and how . The Toyota Production System is focused on both how to make cars, and how to improve the way cars are made. A third objective can also be added, which is to improve the business system itself by identifying or...
GLaDOS Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System is a fictional character in the video game series Portal, created by Erik Wolpaw and Kim Swift, and voiced by Ellen McLain. GLaDOS is depicted in the first game as an artificially superintelligent computer system responsible for testing and maintenance in the Aperture Science Computer-Aided Enrichment Center in all titles. After betraying and almost killing the protagonist Chell, GLaDOS is revealed to be responsible for the desertion of the Enrichment Center after going rogue and killing the scientists who created her, before being defeated in a final boss fight. She is revived in Portal 2, but then disabled by Wheatley, who takes control from her over the facility and betrays Chell, forcing GLaDOS to join forces with the latter after being forcibly downloaded onto a potato battery nicknamed PotatOS. Recordings by Cave Johnson reveal GLaDOS to have been forcibly digitized from a human woman named Caroline. The inspiration for the character's creation extends from Wolpaw's use of a text-to-speech program while writing lines for the video game Psychonauts. Other game developers working on Psychonauts found the lines funnier as a result...
Korora was a remix of the Fedora Linux distribution. Originally Kororaa was a binary installation method for Gentoo Linux which aimed for easy installation of a Gentoo system by using install scripts instead of manual configuration. The name derives from the Mori word koror - the little penguin.  History  Korora was started by Christopher Smart as a method to quickly reproduce a Gentoo Linux installation on multiple desktop machines. Smart also intended that Korora be used to quickly demonstrate the power of Gentoo Linux to users critical of 'compile times'. On November 7, 2007, Smart announced that he was discontinuing his work on the project, and that there would be no new versions of Korora. The introduction of the Korora GL Live CD was intended to demonstrate the capabilities of Novell's gl and Compiz. On December 23, 2010, Smart announced rebirth of Korora as a Fedora remix. On May 2, 2013, Korora 18 was released, featuring a revised name spelled with only one A and a new logo. On May 16, 2018, Korora stopped its development.  Kororaa GL Live CD  In March 2006, a Korora based Live CD was released, preconfigured with gl capabilities. The live...
Mach is an operating system kernel developed at Carnegie Mellon University by Richard Rashid and Avie Tevanian to support operating system research, primarily distributed and parallel computing. Mach is often considered one of the earliest examples of a microkernel. Nonetheless, not all versions of Mach are microkernels. Mach's derivatives are the basis of the operating system kernel in GNU Hurd and of Apple's NU kernel used in macOS, iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, and watchOS. The project at Carnegie Mellon ran from 1985 to 1994, ending with Mach 3.0, which is a true microkernel. Mach was developed as a replacement for the kernel in the BSD version of Unix, not requiring a new operating system to be designed around it. Mach and its derivatives exist within several commercial operating systems, including all those using the NU operating system kernel, which incorporates an earlier non-microkernel version of Mach as a major component. The Mach virtual memory management system was also adopted in 4.4BSD by the BSD developers at CSRG, and appears in modern BSD-derived Unix systems such as FreeBSD. Mach is the logical successor to Carnegie Mellon's Accent kernel. Mach's lead developer Richard...
A kernel is a component of a computer operating system. It serves as an intermediary connecting software to hardware, enabling them to work together seamlessly. A comparison of system kernels can provide insight into the design and architectural choices made by the developers of particular operating systems.  Comparison criteria  The following tables compare general and technical information for a number of widely used and currently available operating system kernels. Please see the individual products' articles for further information. Even though there are a large number and variety of available Linux distributions, all of these kernels are grouped under a single entry in these tables, due to the differences among them being of the patch level. See comparison of Linux distributions for a detailed comparison. Linux distributions that have highly modified kernels-for example, real-time computing kernels-should be listed separately. There are also a wide variety of minor BSD operating systems, many of which can be found at comparison of BSD operating systems. The tables specifically do not include subjective viewpoints on the merits of each kernel or operating system.  Feature... 
The Molossians Greek:  or , romanized: Molossoi or Molottoi were a group of ancient Greek tribes which inhabited the region of Epirus in classical antiquity. Together with the Chaonians and the Thesprotians, they formed the main tribal groupings of the northwestern Greek group. On their northern frontier, they neighbored the Chaonians and on their southern frontier neighbored the kingdom of the Thesprotians. They formed their own state around 370 BC and were part of the League of Epirus. The most famous Molossian ruler was Pyrrhus of Epirus, considered one of the greatest generals of antiquity. The Molossians sided with the Macedonians against Rome in the Third Macedonian War and were defeated. Following the war, the region witnessed devastation while a considerable number of Molossians and other Epirotes were enslaved and transported to the Roman Republic, in the Italian Peninsula.  Ancient sources  According to Strabo, the Molossians, along with the Chaonians and Thesprotians, were the most famous among the fourteen tribes of Epirus, who once ruled over the whole region. The Chaonians ruled Epirus at an earlier time, and afterwards the Thesprotians...
David Welsh: Dewi Sant Latin: Davidus c. 500 - c. 589 was a Welsh Christian prelate who served as Bishop of Mynyw during the 6th century. He is the patron saint of Wales. David was a native of Wales, and tradition has preserved a large amount of detail about his life. His birth date, however, is uncertain: suggestions range from 462 to 512. He is traditionally believed to be the son of Non and the grandson of Ceredig ap Cunedda, king of Ceredigion. The Welsh annals placed his death 569 years after the birth of Christ, but Phillimore's dating revised this to 601.  Hagiography  Many of the traditional tales about David are found in the Buchedd Dewi , a hagiography written by Rhygyfarch around 1090. Rhygyfarch claimed it was based on documents found in the cathedral archives. Modern historians are sceptical of some of its claims: one of Rhygyfarch's aims was to establish some independence for the Welsh church, which had refused the Roman rite until the 8th century and now sought a metropolitan status equal to that of Canterbury this may apply to the supposed pilgrimage to Jerusalem where he is said to have been anointed as an archbishop by the patriarch. The...
Azazel, a demon from Jewish mythology, has been developed into characters in popular culture.  Literature  Robertson Davies introduces Azazel and Samahazai as rebel angels in the first book of his Cornish Trilogy, The Rebel Angels. They are said to have betrayed the secrets of Heaven to King Solomon, so that God threw them out of Heaven, and on earth they taught tongues, and healing and laws and hygiene. Azazel is the principal character in a series of short stories written by Isaac Asimov. Azazel is a leader of the fallen angels in the light novel series High School DxD. He becomes a teacher and club advisor at their school. In the light novel series Blue Exorcist, Azazel is one of the eight Demon Kings and a son of Satan. Azazello is a character in Mikhail Bulgakov's novel The Master and Margarita. In the fifth book of The Mortal Instruments, Azazel is a greater demon raised by warlock Magnus Bane to help in a search for shadowhunter Jace Lightwood. Neil Gaiman's Sandman comics, published by DC Comics, feature Azazel as a character. The -Men comic books feature a mutant based on the legendary demon, created by writer Chuck Austen. In...
In music notation, a note value indicates the relative duration of a note, using the texture or shape of the notehead, the presence or absence of a stem, and the presence or absence of flagsbeamshookstails. Unmodified note values are fractional powers of two, for example one, one-half, one fourth, etc. A rest indicates a silence of an equivalent duration.  List  Shorter notes can be created theoretically ad infinitum by adding further flags, but are very rare.  Variations  The breve appears in several different versions. Sometimes the longa or breve is used to indicate a very long note of indefinite duration, as at the end of a piece . A single eighth note, or any faster note, is always stemmed with flags, while two or more are usually beamed in groups. When a stem is present, it can go either up or down , except in the cases of the longa or maxima which are nearly always written with downward stems. In most cases, the stem goes down if the notehead is on the center line or above, and up otherwise. Any flags always go to the right of the stem.  Modifiers  A note value...
Pora Kngi Delamere was a New Zealand carpenter, boat builder, farmer and Ringat leader. Of Mori descent, he identified with the Te Whakathea and Te Whnau--Apanui iwi. He was born in Whitianga, East Cape, New Zealand on 1889. He was the father of Monita Eru Delamere.  References 
Jordal Idrettspark is a multi-sports complex located at Jordal in Oslo, Norway. Owned by Oslo Municipality, its main tenant is Vlerengens IF. The main components are two ice hockey rinks, Jordal Amfi and Ungdomshallen, and a football stadium, Jordal Stadion. Jordal Stadion was built between 1930 and 1936. It is currently used for recreational football and American football, although it has previously also been used for speed skating. Jordal Amfi was built for ice hockey at the 1952 Winter Olympics and opened in 1951. The Vlerenga Trolls play American football at the stadium and Vlerenga Ishockey play in the amphitheater. The track around the football stadium was formerly used for track and field. It was especially prominent in the Workers' Confederation of Sports , where it was used for national championships for AIF clubs, like Jordal IF. It also hosted the national Workers' Championships in race walking, 5000 metres, in 1937 and 1938. Since 1926, the road race walking events had also been staged from Jordal. After the Workers' Confederation of Sports became defunct, Jordal was also used as a national venue by the Norwegian Walking Association. The local multi-sports club was...
Richmond Newspapers Inc. v. Virginia, 448 U.S. 555 , is a United States Supreme Court case involving issues of privacy in correspondence with the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, the freedom of the press, the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution and the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. After a murder case ended in three mistrials, the judge closed the fourth trial to the public and the press. On appeal, the Supreme Court ruled the closing to be in violation of the First Amendment and Fourteenth Amendment asserting that the First Amendment implicitly guarantees the press access to public trials.  Background  At about 6:00pm on December 2, 1975, the body of Lillian M. Keller, the manager of the Holly Court Motel, was found stabbed to death in her apartment. Howard Franklin Bittorf, a resident in the motel at the time of the murder, and his brother-in-law, John Paul Stevenson were indicted on March 16, 1976, by the Commonwealth of Virginia grand jury for Hanover county for the murder.  Prior litigation  On July 16, 1976, a Hanover County Circuit Court jury found Stevenson guilty of second-degree murder. On appeal, on October...
The list of shipwrecks in May 1915 includes ships sunk, foundered, grounded, or otherwise lost during May 1915.  1 May   2 May   3 May   4 May   5 May   6 May   7 May   8 May   9 May   12 May   15 May   16 May   18 May   19 May   20 May   21 May   22 May   23 May   24 May   25 May   26 May   27 May   28 May   29 May   30 May   31 May   Unknown date   Bibliography   Notes   References  Fraccaroli, Aldo . Italian Warships of World War I. Allan. p. 304. ISBN 9780711001053.
Christian Leichner born March 11, 1982, in Crdoba, Argentina is an Argentine former football forward.  Teams  Racing de Crdoba 2002-2003 Universitario de Crdoba 2004-2005 Deportivo Maip 2005 Escuela Presidente Roca 2006 9 de Julio de Ro Tercero 2006 Sportivo Patria 2007 Talleres de Perico 2007-2008 General Paz Juniors 2008-2009 Unin de Sunchales 2009-2010 Sport Huancayo 2011 Sportivo Belgrano 2011 Gimnasia y Esgrima de Mendoza 2011 Naval 2012 Tiro Federal Morteros 2013 Sportivo Del Bono 2014  Personal life  His younger brother, Matas, is also a footballer and they coincided in Chilean club Naval in 2012.  References   External links  Christian Leichner at BDFA Christian Leichner at Soccerway
Lochgelly United Football Club was a football club based in Lochgelly, Scotland. Nicknamed the 'Happylanders', the club were members of the Scottish Football League between 1914 and 1926.  History  The club was formed in 1890 by the merger of two local clubs, Lochgelly Athletic and Fifeshire Hibernian , and initially played at Schools Park. They spent their time variously in the Northern and Central leagues, and even had a spell between 1898 and 1902 when they played only cup games and friendlies. In 1901 the club moved to Reids Park, where they remained until 1910, when they moved again, to Recreation Park. They were admitted to the Scottish Football League Second Division in 1914, although the competition was suspended in 1915 due to World War I. They continued in the Eastern and Central Leagues and returned to the Second Division when it was reinstated in 1921. However the club suffered a traumatic season in 1923-24, setting two unwanted records for the old Second Division - most defeats in a season and fewest league goals in a season . The Happylanders home form that season had been noted for low scores with the club and their visitors sharing...
The Congregation Shearith Israel Hebrew:   , romanized: Kehilat She'arit Yisra'el, lit. 'Congregation Remnant of Israel', often called The Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, is an Orthodox Jewish synagogue located at 2 West 70th Street, at Central Park West, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City, New York, United States. Established in 1654 in New Amsterdam by Jews who arrived from Dutch Brazil, it is the oldest Jewish congregation in the United States. Until 1825, when Jewish immigrants from Germany established a congregation, it was the only Jewish congregation in New York City. The Orthodox congregation follows the Sephardic rite, and has occupied its current Neoclassical building since 1897.  Founding and synagogue buildings  The first group of Spanish and Portuguese Jews were twenty-three refugees from Dutch Brazil, who arrived in New Amsterdam in September 1654. After being initially rebuffed by the Director of New Netherland, Peter Stuyvesant, Jews were given official permission to settle in the colony in 1655. This year marks the founding of the Congregation Shearith Israel. Although they were allowed to stay in New Amsterdam, they faced discrimination...
Fluorosulfuric acid is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula HSO3F. It is one of the strongest acids commercially available. It is a tetrahedral molecule and is closely related to sulfuric acid, H2SO4, substituting a fluorine atom for one of the hydroxyl groups. It is a colourless liquid, although commercial samples are often yellow due to impurities.  Properties  Fluorosulfuric acid is a free-flowing colorless liquid. It is soluble in polar organic solvents e.g. nitrobenzene, acetic acid, and ethyl acetate, but poorly soluble in nonpolar solvents such as alkanes. HSO3F is one of the strongest known simple Brnsted acids. It has an H0 value of 15.1 compared to 12 for sulfuric acid. The combination of HSO3F and the Lewis acid antimony pentafluoride produces Magic acid, which is a far stronger protonating agent. These acids are categorized as superacids, acids stronger than 100 sulfuric acid. Reflecting its strong acidity, HSO3F dissolves almost all organic compounds that are even weak proton acceptors. HSO3F hydrolyzes slowly to hydrogen fluoride and sulfuric acid. The related triflic acid retains the high acidity...
Genoplesium woollsii, commonly known as dark midge-orchid, is a species of orchid endemic to New South Wales. It has a single thin, wiry leaf and in autumn has up to thirty five drooping, dark purple flowers on a flowering stem which is fused to the lower part of the leaf.  Description  Genoplesium woollsii is a terrestrial, perennial, deciduous, sympodial herb with a single cylindrical, glabrous leaf fused to the flowering stem. The leaf is 100-400 mm long and the free part is 15-35 mm long and ends below the flowers. Between five and thirty five dark purple flowers with darker streaks are arranged on a flowering stem 15-35 mm tall. The flowers droop forwards, and are about 8 mm long, 4-6 mm wide. As with others in the genus the flowers are inverted so that the labellum is above the column rather than below it. The dorsal sepal is egg-shaped, 3-4 mm long, 1.5-2 mm wide, sharply pointed and with short hairs on the edges. The lateral sepals are linear to lance-shaped, 4-5 mm long, 1-1.5 mm wide and diverge from each other. The petals are egg-shaped, 2.5-3 mm 0.098-0...
Everybody's Business , is a 2013 Singaporean comedy film directed by Lee Thean-jeen. The film centres around public hygiene and cleanliness in toilets. This film also marks the third on-screen pairing of Gurmit Singh and Mark Lee after One Leg Kicking and Taxi! Taxi!, where the former was released on 14 November 2001 and the latter was released earlier on 3 January 2013.  Plot  John Lu is a hygiene officer for the newly created Minister of Toilets, headed by Kumari Kuppusamy. He and his boss Winston Li need to get to the bottom of a toilet hygiene problem that has caused 50 Singaporeans to get food poisoning.  Cast   Special appearances   Release  The film was released in theatres on 5 December 2013.  Reception  Charlene Chua of The New Paper gave the film three stars out of five. Yip Wai Yee of The Straits Times gave the film one and a half stars out of five, stating, There are the rare moments when the film makes some keen observations about government campaigns, including how they always seem to incorporate a catchy ditty that everyone loves to hate, but such moments are few and far between.  References   External links  Everybody's Business...
Any action or influence that species have on each other is considered a biological interaction. These interactions between species can be considered in several ways. One such way is to depict interactions in the form of a network, which identifies the members and the patterns that connect them. Species interactions are considered primarily in terms of trophic interactions, which depict which species feed on others. Currently, ecological networks that integrate non-trophic interactions are being built. The type of interactions they can contain can be classified into six categories: mutualism, commensalism, neutralism, amensalism, antagonism, and competition. Observing and estimating the fitness costs and benefits of species interactions can be very problematic. The way interactions are interpreted can profoundly affect the ensuing conclusions.  Interaction characteristics  Characterization of interactions can be made according to various measures, or any combination of them. Prevalence Prevalence identifies the proportion of the population affected by a given interaction, and thus quantifies whether it is relatively rare or common. Generally, only common interactions are considered...
A parody religion or mock religion is a belief system that challenges the spiritual convictions of others, often through humor, satire, or burlesque . Often constructed to achieve a specific purpose related to another belief system, a parody religion can be a parody of several religions, sects, gurus, cults, or new religious movements at the same time, or even a parody of no particular religion - instead parodying the concept of religious belief itself. Some parody religions emphasise having fun the new faith may serve as a convenient excuse for pleasant social interaction among the like-minded. One approach of parody religions aims to highlight deficiencies in particular pro-religious arguments - following the logic that if a given argument can also be used to support a clear parody, then the original argument is clearly flawed. This can be done through fictional religions found in many works of fiction - one example of this can be the Bokononism from the novel Cat's Cradle by Kurt Vonnegut. Another example of this is the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, which parodies the demand for equal time employed by intelligent design and creationism. Occasionally...
Mari religion Mari:  , romanized: imarii jla, also called Mari paganism, is the ethnic religion of the Mari people, a Volga Finnic ethnic group based in Mari El, a republic of Russia. The religion has undergone changes over time, particularly under the influence of neighbouring monotheisms. In the last few decades, while keeping its traditional features in the countryside, an organised neopagan revival has taken place.  History  Compared to neighbouring ethnic groups, Mari traditions are more archaic, albeit with influence from Islam in the Middle Ages and later Russian Orthodox Christianity in the early Modern period. In the 16th century, Mari territory functioned as a buffer between the Russian Empire and the Kazan Khanate before it came under Russian control during the Russo-Kazan Wars. When the Mari were incorporated into the Russian Empire, they were nominally converted to Christianity, but mostly continued to practice their old ethnic religion. Russian missionary efforts in the 17th-18th centuries attempted to fully convert the Mari population to Orthodoxy through coercion and exemption from taxes and military service. Some Mari fled to Bashkiria to avoid Christianisation...
Prehistoric religion is the religious practice of prehistoric cultures. Prehistory, the period before written records, accounts for the bulk of human experience over 99 of it occurred during the Paleolithic period alone. Prehistoric cultures spanned the globe and existed for over two and a half million years their religious practices were many and varied, and studying them is difficult due to the lack of written records detailing their faiths. The cognitive capacity for religion likely first emerged in Homo sapiens sapiens, or anatomically modern humans, although some scholars posit the existence of Neanderthal religion, and sparse evidence exists for earlier ritual practice. Excluding sparse and controversial evidence in the Middle Paleolithic , religion emerged with certainty in the Upper Paleolithic around 50,000 years ago. Upper Paleolithic religion was possibly shamanic, centered on the phenomenon of special spiritual leaders entering trance states to receive esoteric knowledge. These practices are extrapolated from the rich and complex body of art left by Paleolithic artists, particularly the elaborate cave art and enigmatic Venus figurines they produced...
Religion in Australia is diverse. In the 2021 national census, 43.9 of Australians identified with Christianity and 38.9 declared no religion. Australia has no official religion. Section 116 of the Constitution of Australia states: The Commonwealth shall not make any law for establishing any religion, or for imposing any religious observance, or for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion, and no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth. Section 116 does not preclude the states of Australia from making such laws. The Christian festivals of Easter and Christmas are public holidays.  History  The Aboriginal peoples of Australia traditionally followed a set of beliefs known as The Dreaming some of the earliest evidence for religious practices among humans has been found in the archaeological record of their ancestors. Torres Strait Islander religion bore similarities to broader Melanesian spirituality. Christianity came to Australia in 1788 with British colonial settlement. Of the convicts and free settlers, most were members of the established Church of England with lesser numbers of Nonconformist Protestants...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 237 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The Bell System was a system of telecommunication companies, led by the Bell Telephone Company and later by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, that dominated the telephone services industry in North America for over 100 years from its creation in 1877 until its antitrust breakup in 1983. The system of companies was often colloquially called Ma Bell , as it held a vertical monopoly over telecommunication products and services in most areas of the United States and Canada. At the time of the breakup of the Bell System in the early 1980s, it had assets of 150 billion and employed over one million people. Since the 1910s, American antitrust regulators had been observing and accusing the Bell System of abusing its monopoly power and had brought legal action multiple times. In 1974 the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice brought a lawsuit against Bell claiming violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act. In 1982, anticipating that it could not win, ATT agreed to a Justice Department-mandated consent decree that settled the lawsuit and ordered it to separate itself from its local phone companies, who would...
EPOC is a mobile operating system developed by Psion, a British company founded in 1980. It began as a 16-bit operating system for Psion's own x86-compatible devices, and was later replaced by a 32-bit system for x86 and ARM. Psion licensed the 32-bit system to other hardware makers, such as Ericsson. To distinguish it from the 16-bit OS, the 32-bit version was sometimes called EPOC32. Technologically, it was a major departure from the 16-bit version . In 1998, the 32-bit version was renamed Symbian OS. After Nokia acquired the rights to Symbian in 2010, they published Symbian's source code under the Eclipse Public License. In 2011, Nokia rescinded the open-source license for subsequent releases of the software.  Name  The name EPOC comes from the word epoch . The name was shortened to four letters to accord with the names of such software innovations as Unix and Mach. Initially the operating system was capitalised as Epoc rather than 'EPOC', since it is not an acronym. The change to all capital letters was made on the recommendation of Psion's marketing department. Thereafter, a rumour circulated in the technical...
Maya OS is an operating system developed by the Indian Defence Research and Development Organisation in 2021, with implementation commencing after 15-August-2023. It is based on the Ubuntu distribution of Linux. Included with Maya OS is Chakravyuh, an endpoint detection and protection system designed to safeguard against security threats. The stated goal of the project is to protect sensitive defence systems and data from cyberattacks, promoting indigenous innovation by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team and reducing dependence on foreign software.  Name  Maya OS derives its name from the Sanskrit word Maya , meaning illusion. The name reflects the system's capability to provide deceptive layers of security, effectively cloaking the Defence Ministry's computers from potential cyber threats. Accompanying Maya OS is Chakravyuh, an endpoint detection and protection system, named after the Sanskrit term Chakravyuha . This term describes a strategic military formation used for encircling adversaries, as famously illustrated in the Hindu epic, the Mahabharata.  Development  Predating Maya OS, in 2007, the Centre for Development of Advanced...
Pardus is a Linux distribution developed with support from the government of Turkey. Pardus' main focus is office-related work including use in Turkish government agencies. Despite that, Pardus ships in several languages. Its ease of use and availability free of charge has spawned numerous communities throughout the world.  Development  Pardus was started by Turkish National Research Institute of Electronics and Cryptology , a division of the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey , in 2003. The first live CD version of Pardus was a fork of Gentoo Linux in 2005. TBTAK later decided to continue development of Pardus based on the stable branch of Debian as from 2013. The abandoned independent Linux distribution was however continued by volunteers under the name PiSi Linux.  External links  Official website Pardus Linux at DistroWatch PiSi Linux's website PiSi Linux at DistroWatch  References 
The Pick operating system, also known as the Pick system or simply Pick, is a demand-paged, multi-user, virtual memory, time-sharing computer operating system based around a MultiValue database. Pick is used primarily for business data processing. It is named after one of its developers, Dick Pick. The term Pick system has also come to be used as the general name of all operating environments which employ this multivalued database and have some implementation of PickBASIC and ENGLISHAccess queries. Although Pick started on a variety of minicomputers, the system and its various implementations eventually spread to a large assortment of microcomputers, personal computers, and mainframe computers.  Overview  The Pick Operating System is an integrated computing platform with a database, query and procedural operation languages, peripheral and multi-user management, and BASIC programming capabilities. Its database utilizes a hash-file system, enabling efficient data storage and retrieval by organizing data into dynamic associative arrays managed by associative files. Data within the Pick system is organized into a hierarchical structure of accounts, dictionaries, files, and sub-files...
Copland is an operating system developed by Apple for Macintosh computers between 1994 and 1996 but never commercially released. It was intended to be released with the name System 8, and later after changing their naming style, Mac OS 8. Planned as a modern successor to the aging System 7, Copland introduced protected memory, preemptive multitasking, and several new underlying operating system features, while retaining compatibility with existing Mac applications. Copland's tentatively planned successor, codenamed Gershwin, was intended to add more advanced features such as application-level multithreading. Development officially began in March 1994. Over the next several years, previews of Copland garnered much press, introducing the Mac audience to operating system concepts such as object orientation, crash-proofing, and multitasking. In August 1995, David Nagel, a senior vice president, announced at Macworld Expo that Copland would be released in mid-1996. The following May, Gil Amelio stated that Copland was the primary focus of the company, aiming for a late-year release. Internally, however, the development effort was beset with problems due to dysfunctional corporate personnel...
This is a list of real-time operating systems . This is an operating system in which the time taken to process an input stimulus is less than the time lapsed until the next input stimulus of the same type.  References   External links  2024 RTOS Performance Report - Beningo Embedded Group 2013 RTOS Comparison - Embedded Magazine Timing Comparison of the Real-Time Operating Systems for STM32 Microcontrollers FreeRTOS, RT-Thread, RT, uCOS-II, uCOS-III - Symmetry in 2020
Kinkaid is a populated place located in Mineral County. Kinkaid is also known as Kinkead and Kinkaid Siding. Kinkead was a stop on the Carson and Colorado Railway. Kinkead Mill, located in Kinkead, was in operation in the 1940s.  References   External links  Kinkead. Silver State Ghost Towns. Archived from the original on June 5, 2023. Retrieved February 9, 2020. - includes photos.
Rolando Aarons is a professional footballer who plays as a winger. Born in Jamaica, he has previously represented England at youth international level. He has had previous spells with Hellas Verona in Italy, Slovan Liberec in the Czech Republic, Scottish club Motherwell, Slovenian side Celje, and in England with Newcastle United, Huddersfield Town, Sheffield Wednesday, Wycombe Wanderers and Morecambe  Club career   Newcastle United  Aarons joined Newcastle United in 2012 after being released by his home town club Bristol City. He made his reserve team debut on 8 February 2013 against Stoke City and scored in his second reserve game against Crystal Palace 17 days later. Aarons travelled with the Newcastle squad to their game against Fulham. He was not included in the matchday squad as the Magpies lost 1-0. Reserves teammate ubomr atka also travelled with the squad for the first time. On 1 April 2014, Aarons signed a professional contract with Newcastle United.  2014-15 season  Aarons had an impressive pre-season prior to the 2014-15 season, scoring one goal and creating one assist in the 2014 Schalke 04 Cup against Bundesliga team Schalke. Shortly...
Events from the year 1781 in Scotland.  Incumbents   Law officers  Lord Advocate - Henry Dundas Solicitor General for Scotland - Alexander Murray  Judiciary  Lord President of the Court of Session - Lord Arniston, the younger Lord Justice General - The Viscount Stormont Lord Justice Clerk - Lord Barskimming  Events  Construction of The Mound in Edinburgh begins. Montrose Lunatic Asylum, Infirmary  Dispensary, predecessor of Sunnyside Royal Hospital, founded by Susan Carnegie. John Howie begins publication of the 2nd edition of his Biographia Scoticana : A Brief Historical Account of the Lives, Characters, and Memorable Transactions of the Most Eminent Scots Worthies.  Births  March - John Burnet, engraver and painter 16 March - William Mitchell, entrepreneur 19 March - John Henry Wishart, surgeon 12 June - Christian Isobel Johnstone, journalist and novelist 12 September - John Grieve, poet 14 September - James Walker, civil engineer 18 September - Allan Burns, surgeon 30 November - Alexander Berry, adventurer and Australian pioneer died 1873...
Hanifabad is a neighbourhood in the Orangi municipality of Karachi, Pakistan. It is administered as part of Karachi West district, but was part of the Orangi Town borough until that was disbanded in 2011. There are several ethnic groups in Orangi Town including Muhajirs, Sindhis, Kashmiris, Seraikis, Pakhtuns, Balochis, Memons, Bohras and Ismailis.  References   External links  Karachi Website Archived 2002-03-25 at the Wayback Machine
The State Archives of the Vinnytsia Oblast Ukrainian:      is an archive of the Ukrainian State Archive Service located in Vinnytsia, Ukraine, housing documents from the Vinnytsia Oblast. The archive contains holdings from the 18th century to the early 21st.  History  In 1920, the Podolia Regional Archive was established in Vinnytsia, consisting of three departments: archival, library, and bibliographic. In September of that year, the Podolsk Regional Archives was transferred to the Podolsk Provincial Archival Administration, which disbanded in February 1921. On April 1, 1922, the administration was reformed under the Soviet Union for the purpose of storing and archiving pre-revolutionary documents. Under July 24, 1925, following the liquidation of the Podolia Governorate, the administration transferred its functions to a temporary archival commission, which distributed the holdings to three administrations in Vinnytsia, Mohyliv-Podilskyi, and Tulchyn. The archive became a part of the Vinnytsia District Archival Administration. By the end of 1931, the local archival administration was reorganized into the Vinnytsia State Historical...
HoopsHype is a website that focuses on basketball news, particularly about the National Basketball Association .  History  The website was founded by Jorge Sierra, who has operated it since 2002. Sierra runs the site with Angel Marin and Raul Barrigon. In March 2008, the website was acquired by Fantasy Sports Ventures. Later, in February 2012, USA Today Sports Media Group acquired the website. Focused on news relating to the NBA, the site is noted for its frequent publishing of rumor mill topics relating to the NBA, as well as information relating to agents, and for its profiles and interviews of NBA players. The website and its content has been cited by sports media writers such as Bill Simmons and Pablo Torre, as well as other sports news websites such as Bleacher Report, CBS Sports, ESPN, and Sports Illustrated. During a 2015 interview by ESPN, NBA player Jamal Crawford stated: I watch League Pass every second. I'm on HoopsHype, I'm on ESPN, I can tell you about whosever's game you want to know about. Because I breathe it. I loved basketball before I loved anything else.  References 
The Red Zone is a governmental zone in Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan, which houses the highest executive, judicial and legislative authority buildings of the country. It is where the President and Prime Minister of Pakistan reside. It houses diplomatic embassies and federal buildings with the highest authority. The main North-South streets in the Red Zone are Constitution Avenue, Third Avenue, and Fourth Avenue. Pakistan buildings governmental in the Red Zone include: Parliament of Pakistan, Pakistan Secretariat, Aiwan-e-Sadr, Prime Minister's Secretariat, Supreme Court of Pakistan, National Library of Pakistan, Election Commission of Pakistan, Federal Ministries and Departments.  See also  Diplomatic Enclave, Islamabad  Notes   References 
Barbara Dolores Assoon was a Trinidad and Tobago actress, journalist, and broadcaster.  Biography  Barbara Assoon was born in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. The daughter of a French-Chinese acrobat, she began her acting career in the mid-1940s. In 1948, she had a role in a production of Peter Ustinov's play The Indifferent Shepherd, acting in the first of many productions with Errol John. In the following year, Assoon received a scholarship to study acting in England, choosing the Bristol Old Vic school, and appearing as Tituba in the first performance of Arthur Miller's The Crucible there on 9 November 1954. Assoon spent the next 19 years in Britain and appeared in many radio, television and stage productions. She performed in many radio soap operas as well as live TV dramas during the 1950s. In 1957, Assoon made her Trinidadian radio debut in The Edwards Family, a soap opera. In 1958, she played Rosa in Errol John's play Moon on a Rainbow Shawl at the Royal Court Theatre. She reprised her role in The Crucible for British television, in a production also featuring Sean Connery. She also played one of the leads in Fable , an episode of The Wednesday...
The Syracuse Rapid Transit Railway, an interurban railroad, was chartered on May 21, 1896. The company was a consolidation of the Syracuse Street Railroad Company, the Syracuse Consolidated Street Railway Company and the People's Railroad Company which was formerly leased to the Syracuse Street Railroad Company. The company was consolidated with the New York State Railways, affiliated with New York Central Railroad in 1912.  New York State Railways  Syracuse Rapid Transit Railway was consolidated with the New York State Railways, affiliated with New York Central Railroad in 1912. The former Syracuse Rapid Transit went on to form the majority of what would become the Syracuse Lines of New York State Railways. The parent company entered receivership in 1929, from which it emerged in 1934. The Syracuse Lines were reorganized as the Syracuse Transit Corporation on November 22, 1939. The last day of streetcar operation in Syracuse was January 4, 1941.  References 
Valentine's Brook is a fence on Aintree Racecourse's National Course and thus is jumped during the Grand National steeplechase which is held annually at the racecourse, located near Liverpool, England. Originally named as the Second Brook, it was renamed after a horse named Valentine was reputed to have jumped the fence hind legs first in 1840. The horse eventually finished third. It is jumped twice during the race, as the 9th and 25th fences. The fence is similar to, but less daunting than, Becher's Brook, being 5 ft high and followed by a ditch of 5 ft 6 in . It accounts for around 2 of fallers in the Grand National race. The fence has, however, caused several fatalities in races run over the course, and calls have been made for its removal.  References 
The Gambia Colony and Protectorate was the British colonial administration of The Gambia from 1821 to 1965, part of the British Empire in the New Imperialism era. The colony was the immediate area surrounding Bathurst , and the protectorate was the inland territory situated around the Gambia River, which was declared in 1894.  History  The foundation of the colony was Fort James and Bathurst, where British presence was established in 1815 and 1816, respectively. For various periods in its existence it was subordinate to the Sierra Leone Colony. However, by 1888 it was a colony in its own right with a permanently appointed Governor. The boundaries of the territory were an issue of contention between the British and French authorities due to the proximity to French Senegal. Additionally, on numerous occasions the British government had attempted to exchange it with France for other territories, such as on the upper Niger River. France and Britain agreed in 1889 in principle to set the boundary at 10 km north and south of the river and east to Yarbutenda, the furthest navigable point on the river Gambia. This was followed by the dispatch of a joint Anglo-French...
The 2015 Korea National League Championship, known as the Samsung Life 2015 National League Championship, was the twelfth competition of the Korea National League Championship.  Group stage   Group A   Group B   Knockout stage   Bracket   Semi-finals   Final   See also  2015 in South Korean football 2015 Korea National League  References   External links 
Hikari is a high-speed train service running on the Tkaid and San'y Shinkansen bullet train lines in Japan. Slower than the premier Nozomi but faster than the all-stations Kodama, the Hikari is the fastest train service on the Tkaid and San'y Shinkansen that can be used with the Japan Rail Pass, which is not valid for travel on the Nozomi or Mizuho trains except through a special supplementary ticket.  Service variations   West Hikari  These JR West services first appeared in 1988 on the San'y Shinkansen between Shin-saka and Hakata using 6-car 0 series trains. 0 series 12-car SK units were employed on these services from 1989. From 11 March 2000, they were mostly replaced by the new 700 series Hikari Rail Star services, and were finally withdrawn on 21 April 2000. The West Hikari livery had a similar colour pattern to the newer 100 series rolling stock, most of which were allocated to JR Central when the Japanese National Railways was privatised in 1987. The interior was refurbished, with the conventional 23 seat configuration changed to a 22 configuration, and the buffet car converted into a caf car.  Grand Hikari  These were the premier...
William James Whitehouse 1 April 1909 in Plumstead - 14 July 1957 at Reims was a British racing driver from England. Whitehouse started racing in a Cooper 500 in 1949 in 500 cc Car Club National races . Several wins and top placings followed and through this he became friends with fellow car dealer Bernie Ecclestone. He participated in one Formula One World Championship Grand Prix, on 17 July 1954. He retired from the race with fuel system problems, and scored no World Championship points. He also competed in several non-Championship Formula One races. Whitehouse was the owner of Westmount Garage in Blendon, Bexley, Kent. This Garage was later the base for the Gemini Formula Junior Team. Whitehouse was killed in a Formula Two crash at the Reims Circuit driving a works car, loaned after his privately entered Cooper T39 had engine failure. Later in that race the American Herbert MacKay-Fraser was also killed.  Complete Formula One World Championship results   References   External links  Bill Whitehouse profile at The 500 Owners Association
The bard Arabic: , often translated as the postal service was the state-run courier service of the Umayyad and later Abbasid Caliphates. A major institution in the early Islamic states, the barid was not only responsible for the overland delivery of official correspondence throughout the empire, but it additionally functioned as a domestic intelligence agency, which informed the caliphs on events in the provinces and the activities of government officials. A new bard was established during the Mamluk period.  Etymology  The etymology of the Arabic word barid has been described by historian Richard N. Frye as unclear. A Babylonian origin has been suggested by late-19th-century scholars who offered the following disputed explanation: berd  Babyl. buridu burdu  'courier' and 'fast horse'. It has also been proposed that, since the barid institution appears to have been adopted from the courier systems previously maintained by both the Byzantines and Persian Sassanids, the word barid could be derived from the Late Latin veredus or the Persian buridah dum having a docked tail, in reference to the postal mounts. The term bard is...
Ochradenus is a genus of flowering plants in family Resedaceae. It contains the eight species which range from northeastern Africa through the Arabian Peninsula to Iran and India.  Species  Eight species are accepted. Ochradenus arabicus Chaudhary, Hillc.  A.G.Mill. Ochradenus baccatus Delile Ochradenus gifrii Thulin Ochradenus harsusiticus A.G.Mill. Ochradenus lakhpatensis R.M.Patel  Prajapati Ochradenus socotranus A.G.Mill. Ochradenus somalensis Baker f. Ochradenus spartioides Abdallah A molecular study published in 2007 found that Ochradenus arose from within the ranks of Reseda. Therefore, in future this genus may be abandoned, and its species transferred into Reseda.  References 
Augmented learning is an on-demand learning technique where the environment adapts to the learner. By providing remediation on-demand, learners can gain greater understanding of a topic while stimulating discovery and learning. Technologies incorporating rich media and interaction have demonstrated the educational potential that scholars, teachers and students are embracing. Instead of focusing on memorization, the learner experiences an adaptive learning experience based upon the current context. The augmented content can be dynamically tailored to the learner's natural environment by displaying text, images, video or even playing audio . This additional information is commonly shown in a pop-up window for computer-based environments. Most implementations of augmented learning are forms of e-learning. In desktop computing environments, the learner receives supplemental, contextual information through an on-screen, pop-up window, toolbar or sidebar. As the user navigates a website, e-mail or document, the learner associates the supplemental information with the key text selected by a mouse, touch or other input device. In mobile environments, augmented learning has...
Tom Bliss is a retired American professional rugby union player. Born in New York but raised in England having moved when aged 5 months, he played as a scrum half for the San Diego Breakers in PRO Rugby, Wasps in the English Premiership and the United States internationally. In 2017 Bliss retired from playing professional rugby due to the effects of repeated concussions. He is now a Personal Trainer trading as TOMBLISSFIT.  References 
The Maine Green Independent Party is a state-level political party affiliated with the Green Party of the United States. It is the oldest state green party in the United States. It was founded following an informal meeting of 17 environmental advocates, including Bowdoin College professor John Rensenbrink and others in Augusta, Maine in January 1984. On September 21, 2017, state representative Ralph Chapman switched party affiliation from independent to the Green Independent Party. He did not stand for re-election in 2018 because he was term-limited. A month later, non voting member Henry John Bear also switched his party affiliation to the Green Independent Party from the Democratic Party.  Party qualification  The party is currently in a period of continuous growth stretching back to 1998 according to state records. As of December 4, 2008 there were 31,676 Greens in the state comprising 3.19 of the electorate. As of November 6, 2012, 37,764 Maine voters were registered in the Maine Green Independent Party, representing 3.83 of the statewide electorate. As of August 31, 2017, enrollment in the MGIP had increased to 43,996 of Maine voters...
Phosphorus pentasulfide is the inorganic compound with the formula P2S5 or P4S10 . This yellow solid is the one of two phosphorus sulfides of commercial value. Samples often appear greenish-gray due to impurities. It is soluble in carbon disulfide but reacts with many other solvents such as alcohols, DMSO, and DMF.  Structure and synthesis  Its tetrahedral molecular structure is similar to that of adamantane and almost identical to the structure of phosphorus pentoxide. Phosphorus pentasulfide is obtained by the reaction of liquid white phosphorus with sulfur above 300 C. The first synthesis of P4S10 by Berzelius in 1843 was by this method. Alternatively, P4S10 can be formed by reacting elemental sulfur or pyrite, FeS2, with ferrophosphorus, a crude form of Fe2P production from phosphate rock: 4 Fe2P  18 S  P4S10  8 FeS 4 Fe2P  18 FeS2 heat P4S10  26 FeS  Applications  Approximately 150,000 tons of P4S10 are produced annually. The compound is mainly converted to other derivatives for use as lubrication additives such as zinc dithiophosphates. It is widely used in the production of sodium dithiophosphate...
Software engineering is a branch of both computer science and engineering focused on designing, developing, testing, and maintaining software applications. It involves applying engineering principles and computer programming expertise to develop software systems that meet user needs. A software engineer applies a software development process to define, implement, test, manage, and maintain software systems.  History  Beginning in the 1960s, software engineering was recognized as a separate field of engineering. The development of software engineering was seen as a struggle. Problems included software that was over budget, exceeded deadlines, required extensive debugging and maintenance, and failed to meet users' needs or was never even completed. In 1968, NATO organized the first conference on software engineering, which addressed emerging challenges in software development and played a key role in formalizing guidelines and best practices for creating reliable and maintainable software. The origins of the term software engineering have been attributed to various sources. The term appeared in a list of services offered by companies in the June 1965 issue of Computers and Automation...
Aerospace engineering is the primary field of engineering concerned with the development of aircraft and spacecraft. It has two major and overlapping branches: aeronautical engineering and astronautical engineering. Avionics engineering is similar, but deals with the electronics side of aerospace engineering. Aeronautical engineering was the original term for the field. As flight technology advanced to include vehicles operating in outer space, the broader term aerospace engineering has come into use. Aerospace engineering, particularly the astronautics branch, is often colloquially referred to as rocket science.  Overview  Flight vehicles are subjected to demanding conditions such as those caused by changes in atmospheric pressure and temperature, with structural loads applied upon vehicle components. Consequently, they are usually the products of various technological and engineering disciplines including aerodynamics, air propulsion, avionics, materials science, structural analysis and manufacturing. The interaction between these technologies is known as aerospace engineering. Because of the complexity and number of disciplines involved, aerospace engineering is carried...
Mechanical engineering is the study of physical machines and mechanisms that may involve force and movement. It is an engineering branch that combines engineering physics and mathematics principles with materials science, to design, analyze, manufacture, and maintain mechanical systems. It is one of the oldest and broadest of the engineering branches. Mechanical engineering requires an understanding of core areas including mechanics, dynamics, thermodynamics, materials science, design, structural analysis, electronics, and electricity. In addition to these core principles, mechanical engineers use tools such as computer-aided design , computer-aided manufacturing , computer-aided engineering , and product lifecycle management to design and analyze manufacturing plants, industrial equipment and machinery, heating and cooling systems, transport systems, motor vehicles, aircraft, watercraft, robotics, medical devices, weapons, and others. Mechanical engineering emerged as a field during the Industrial Revolution in Europe in the 18th century however, its development can be traced back several thousand years around the world. In the 19th century, developments in physics...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 247 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Gerrit is a free, web-based team code collaboration tool. Software developers in a team can review each other's modifications on their source code using a Web browser and approve or reject those changes. It integrates closely with Git, a distributed version control system. Gerrit is a fork of Rietveld, a code review tool for Subversion. Both are named after Dutch designer Gerrit Rietveld.  History  Originally written in Python like Rietveld, it is now written in Java with SQL since version 2 and a custom-made Git-based database since version 3. In versions 2.0-2.16 Gerrit used Google Web Toolkit for its browser-based front-end. After being developed and used in parallel with GWT for versions 2.14-2.16, a new Polymer web UI replaced the GWT UI in version 3.0.  See also  List of tools for code review  References   External links  Official website
Piper is a centralized version control system used by Google for its internal software development. Originally designed for Linux, it has supported Microsoft Windows and macOS since October 2012.  Scale  Since its founding years Google has used a central codebase. For over 10 years, Google relied on a single Perforce instance, using proprietary caching for scalability. The need for further scaling led to the development of Piper. Currently, Google's version control is an extreme case: as of 2016, the repository was storing 86 terabytes of data comprising two billion lines of code in nine million files two orders of magnitude more than in the Linux kernel repository. 25,000 developers contributed 16,000 changes daily, with an additional 24,000 commit operations by bots. Read requests each day are measured in billions.  Architecture  Piper uses regular Google Cloud storage solutions, originally Bigtable and later Spanner, distributed across 10 data centers worldwide and replicated through the Paxos protocol.  Use  When using Piper, developers apply changes to a local copy of files, similar to a working copy in Subversion, local clone in Git, or a client in Perforce. Updates...
An edit conflict is a computer problem that may occur when multiple editors edit the same file and cannot merge without losing part or all of their edit. The conflict occurs when an editor gets a copy of a shared document file, changes the copy and attempts to save the changes to the original file, which has been altered by another editor after the copy was obtained.  Resolution  The simplest way to resolve an edit conflict is to ignore intervening edits and overwrite the current file. This may lead to a substantial loss of information, and alternative methods are often employed to resolve or prevent conflicts: Manual resolution, where the editor determines which version to retain and may manually incorporate edits into the current version of the file. Store backups or file comparisons of each edit, so there are the previous versions of the file can still be accessed once the original is overwritten. File locking, which limits the file to one editor at a time to prevent edit conflicts. Computer writer Gary B. Shelly notes that many wiki systems will block the contributor who is attempting to edit the page from being able to do so until the contributor currently editing the page...
In software development, a fork is a codebase that is created by duplicating an existing codebase and, generally, is subsequently modified independently of the original. Software built from a fork initially has identical behavior as software built from the original code, but as the source code is increasingly modified, the resulting software tends to have increasingly different behavior compared to the original. A fork is a form of branching, but generally involves storing the forked files separately from the original - not in the repository. Reasons for forking a codebase include user preference, stagnated or discontinued development of the original software or a schism in the developer community. Forking proprietary software is prohibited by copyright law without explicit permission, but free and open-source software, by definition, may be forked without permission.  Etymology  The word fork has been used to mean to divide in branches, go separate ways as early as the 14th century. In the context of software development, fork was used in the sense of creating a revision control branch by Eric Allman as early as 1980, in the context of Source Code Control System...
A software build is the process of converting source code files into standalone software artifact that can be run on a computer, or the result of doing so. It includes functions such as version control, code quality analysis, compilation, and linking. In software production, builds optimize software for performance and distribution, packaging into formats such as '.exe' '.deb' '.apk'. The build process often employs specialized tools such as CMake, Make, or Gradle, and integrates with automation systems including Jenkins or GitHub Actions. Despite advancements, challenges such as dependency conflicts, platform compatibility, and long compile times, remain problems.  Functions  In software development, building software is an end-to-end process that involves many distinct functions. Some of these functions are described below.  Version control  The version control function carries out activities such as workspace creation and updating, baselining and reporting. It creates an environment for the build process to run in and captures metadata about the inputs and outputs of the build process to ensure repeatability and reliability. Tools such as Git, AccuRev or StarTeam help...
In version-control systems, a monorepo or monorepository mono meaning 'single' and repo being short for 'repository' is a software-development strategy in which the code for a number of projects is stored in the same repository. This practice dates back to at least the early 2000s, when it was commonly called a shared codebase. Google, Meta, Microsoft, Uber, Airbnb, and Twitter all employ very large monorepos with varying strategies to scale build systems and version control software with a large volume of code and daily changes. A related concept is a monolithic application, but whereas a monolith combines its sub-projects into one large project, a monorepo may contain multiple independent and unrelated projects.  Advantages  There are a number of potential advantages to implementing a monorepo rather than separate repositories: Ease of code reuse Similar functionality or communication protocols can be abstracted into shared libraries and directly included by projects, without the need of a dependency package manager. Simplified dependency management In a multiple repository environment where multiple projects depend on a third-party dependency, that dependency might be...
Software configuration management , a.k.a. software change and configuration management , is the software engineering practice of tracking and controlling changes to a software system. It is part of the larger cross-disciplinary field of configuration management . SCM includes version control and the establishment of baselines.  Goals  The goals of SCM include: Configuration identification - Identifying configurations, configuration items and baselines. Configuration control - Implementing a controlled change process. This is usually achieved by setting up a change control board whose primary function is to approve or reject all change requests that are sent against any baseline. Configuration status accounting - Recording and reporting all the necessary information on the status of the development process. Configuration auditing - Ensuring that configurations contain all their intended parts and are sound with respect to their specifying documents, including requirements, architectural specifications and user manuals. Build management - Managing the process and tools used for builds. Process management - Ensuring adherence to the organization's development process...
The version history of the Android mobile operating system began with the public release of its first beta on November 5, 2007. The first commercial version, Android 1.0, was released on September 23, 2008. The operating system has been developed by Google on a yearly schedule since at least 2011. New major releases are usually announced at Google IO in May, along with beta testing, with the stable version released to the public between August and October. From 2025, new versions were announced in the first quarter and shipped in the second quarter.  Overview  The development of Android started in 2003 by Android, Inc., which was purchased by Google in 2005. There were at least two internal releases of the software inside Google and the Open Handset Alliance before the beta version was released. The beta was released on November 5, 2007, while the software development kit was released on November 12, 2007. Several public beta versions of the SDK were released. These releases were done through software emulation as physical devices did not exist to test the operating system. Both the operating system itself and the SDK were released along with their source code, as...
Configuration Management Version Control is a software package that serves as an object repository, and performs software version control, configuration management, and change management functions.  Architecture  This was a client-server based system, with command-line and graphical clients for several platforms and servers available for several flavors of Unix. A relational database was used to keep tracking information but a separate Source Control Manager such as Source Code Control System or PVCS was used to maintain version history for each file. The filenames for these files are actually stored in the relational database - as a result, filenames in the SCCS tree are numeric ids.  Concepts  Files are created and associated with Components. Components form a directed graph where each Component can have several parents. Components are a logical grouping mechanism allowing Files to be grouped together without regard to their physical pathnames unlike directories or folders which lie on the path. Permissions can be given at the Component level, allowing for distributed administration. The permission to give other permissions can be granted. A Release was a set...
Linus Benedict Torvalds is a Finnish and American software engineer who is the creator and lead developer of the Linux kernel since 1991. He also created the distributed version control system Git. Torvalds was one of the recipients of the 2012 Millennium Technology Prize in recognition of his creation of a new open source operating system for computers leading to the widely used Linux kernel. He is also the recipient of the 2014 IEEE Computer Society Computer Pioneer Award and the 2018 IEEE Masaru Ibuka Consumer Electronics Award.  Life and career   Early years  Torvalds was born in Helsinki, Finland, on 28 December 1969, the son of journalists Anna and Nils Torvalds, the grandson of statistician Leo Trnqvist and of poet Ole Torvalds, and the great-grandson of journalist and soldier Toivo Karanko. His parents were campus radicals at the University of Helsinki in the 1960s. His family belongs to the Swedish-speaking minority in Finland. He was named after Linus Pauling, the Nobel Prize-winning American chemist, although in the book Rebel Code: Linux and the Open Source Revolution, he is quoted as saying, I think I was named equally for Linus the Peanuts...
Infrastructure as code is the process of managing and provisioning computer data center resources through machine-readable definition files, rather than via physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration tools. That is, instead of having to build a configuration manually, there is a pre-set configuration that can be applied to a machine. The IT infrastructure managed by this process includes physical equipment, such as bare-metal servers, and virtual machines and associated configuration resources. The definitions may exist in a version control system rather than manual processes. Definition files may use either scripts or declarative definitions, but IaC more often employs declarative approaches.  History  The concept of managing infrastructure through code emerged from early configuration management practices. In the 1990s, tools such as CFEngine, created by Mark Burgess in 1993, introduced the idea of describing system configuration in a declarative language rather than executing manual commands, laying the intellectual groundwork for IaC.  Overview  IaC emerged as organizations began managing larger and more complex infrastructure, particularly with the...
Heat and Mass Transfer is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Springer. It serves the circulation of new developments in the field of basic research of heat and mass transfer phenomena, as well as related material properties and their measurements. Thereby applications to engineering problems are promoted. The journal publishes original research reports. As of 1995 the title Wrme- und Stoffbertragung was changed to Heat and Mass Transfer.  Indexing  Among others, the journal is indexed in Google Scholar, INIS Atomindex, Journal Citation ReportsScience Edition, OCLC, PASCAL, Science Citation Index, Science Citation Index Expanded and Scopus.  External links  Heat and Mass Transfer
Poetry London is a literary periodical based in London. Published three times a year, it features poems, reviews, and other articles.  Profile  Adopting the title of an earlier bimonthly publication which ran from 1939 to 1951, Poetry London was founded in 1988 as a listings magazine. It now publishes poems from Britain and around the world, some originally written in English and some in English translation. The current head of the editorial team is Andr Naffis-Sahely. Previous poetry editors have included Colette Bryce, Pascale Petit, Maurice Riordan, Ahren Warner and Martha Sprackland.  The Poetry London Prize  The magazine runs a major international poetry competition each year, in which the winner receives the Poetry London Prize for a single outstanding poem. There are also second and third prizes. All entries are single poems written in English that have not have yet been published. The first prize is currently 5000. Winners have included Liz Berry, Richard Scott, and Romalyn Ante.  Contributors  Contributors have included some of the best-known poets writing in the English language. But the magazine operates an open submissions policy, and every issue carries both...
 Phone number formats  Telephone numbers in Peru are made of:  Mobile telephony  Nine digits for mobile numbers across the country. The first digit is always the number nine.  Fixed lines  Seven digits in the Metropolitan Area of Lima and Callao Six digits in the rest of the country  Area codes  Peruvian area codes for each region are 2 digits long except for Lima and Callao. On 1 March 2003 new codes were established. The following is a list of the area codes in Peru:  Mobile phone calls within Peru  From September 4, 2010, a national Mobile Virtual Area was created meaning that all mobile numbers in Peru are non-geographical not attached to any geographical region but instead to the new MVA. In addition to that all mobile numbers across the country turned to nine digits long: 9xx xxx xxx. The following instructions are valid across the country:  Calls from mobile to mobile  9xx xxx xxx  Calls from mobile to landline  0  area code  phone number Example on how to call to Piura: 0  73  xxxxxx  Calls from fixed line to mobile  9xx xxx xxx just dial...
Kiwi is a common self-reference used by New Zealanders, though it is also used internationally. The label is generally viewed as a symbol of pride and affection for most people of New Zealand, however there are New Zealanders, particularly some with Mori heritage, that find the appellation jarring and prefer not to identify with it. The name derives from the kiwi, a native flightless bird, which is a national symbol of New Zealand. Until the First World War, the kiwi represented the country and not the people however, by 1917, New Zealanders were also being called Kiwis, supplanting other nicknames such as Enzedder.  History  The kiwi has long had a special significance for the indigenous Mori people, who used its skin and feathers to make feather cloaks for chiefs. The bird first came to European attention in 1811 when a skin ended up in the hands of a British Museum zoologist, George Shaw, who classified it as a type of penguin and portrayed it as standing upright. After early sightings by Europeans the kiwi was regarded as a curiosity in 1835 the missionary William Yate described it as the most remarkable and curious bird in New Zealand. ...
Laurent Chardard is a French Paralympic swimmer who competes in international elite events. He is a European gold medalist and a World gold medalist.  Personal life  Chardard lost his right arm and leg from a shark attack while bodyboarding at a beach near his hometown.  References   External links  Laurent Chardard at the International Paralympic Committee Laurent Chardard at IPC.InfostradaSports.com Laurent Chardard at quipe de France Laurent Chardard at France Paralympique
The 1992-93 season of the NOFV-Oberliga was the second season of the league at tier three of the German football league system after German reunification. The NOFV-Oberliga was split into three divisions, NOFV-Oberliga Nord, NOFV-Oberliga Mitte and NOFV-Oberliga Sd. The champions of the Nord and Mitte divisions entered into a play-off with the runners-up from Sd, which 1. FC Union Berlin won, but as they were refused a license for the 2. Bundesliga, Tennis Borussia Berlin took their place and were promoted for the 1993-94 season.  North   Central   South   2. Bundesliga play-off   External links  NOFV-Online - official website of the North-East German Football Association
The West-Link is a set of twin bridges over the River Liffey in Dublin. A toll bridge, the West Link forms the central section of the Western Parkway route of the M50 ring road motorway.  History  Plans were announced for the construction of the bridge in 1987, and launched by Minister for the Environment Pdraig Flynn. At the time it was expected to be the largest bridge ever built in the state and to cost in the region of 30 million. When complete, the expected toll was to cost the driver about sixty pence. The bridge was constructed as part of the first phase of the M50 motorway, and it and the section of motorway associated with it were the first section of the M50 to open in 1990. Built by NTR plc under a deal with Dublin County Council, the bridge was an early example of public private partnership although that term was not used at the time and was the first section of toll motorway to open in the State. In return for constructing and maintaining the bridge, NTR received the right to operate it as a toll bridge for thirty years. Originally a single-span structure, a second span...
Timothy Michael Federle is an American author, librettist, director writer, and producer. Federle wrote the middle-grade novel Better Nate Than Ever and its two sequels and the cocktail recipe book Tequila Mockingbird and its two follow-ups, and was co-writer of the book for the Broadway musical adaptation of Tuck Everlasting, also titled Tuck Everlasting. He is the creator of Disney series High School Musical: The Musical: The Series.  Biography  Federle was born in Foster City, California, on March 24, 1980, and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the setting for much of his fiction. Prior to his writing career, Federle appeared in the original casts of The Little Mermaid and Gypsy , as an actor, dancer and singer. He worked on the resident choreographic staff of Billy Elliot the Musical, serving as dance captain.  Works   In literature   Fiction  Better Nate Than Ever : Federle's debut novel for middle graders, Better Nate Than Ever, tells the story of 13-year-old Nate, who sneaks away from his home in Pennsylvania to audition for E.T: The Musical on Broadway. In a CNN article about...
262 Fifth Avenue is a residential skyscraper on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, New York City. Five Points Development is developing the building, which is being developed by Boris Kuzinez and designed by Russian architectural firm Meganom. SLCE Architects is the executive architect. The structure is 860 feet high, with 26 apartments across 54 stories. Work on the site began in 2017 when the existing structures were demolished, though construction of the skyscraper's foundation did not begin until 2022. The building topped out in April 2024, and apartment sales began that December.  History  Boris Kuzinez purchased the buildings at 260, 262, and 264 Fifth Avenue in 2015 and 2016 for a total of 101.8 million. Kuzinez also purchased air rights for 5.8 million. In September 2016, SLCE Architects applied to build a 54-story, 928-foot structure on the site at 262 Fifth Avenue designed by Russian firm Meganom. Before receiving the commission to design 262 Fifth Avenue, Meganom had not designed a building in the United States. Five Points JV, L.P. acted as the representative of the site's owner. By early 2017, Kuzinez was negotiating with Goldman Sachs to obtain a construction...
Shepton Mallet Association Football Club are a football club based in Shepton Mallet, Somerset, England. They are currently members of Western League Premier Division and play at the Playing Fields.  History  They were established in 1986 after the liquidation of Shepton Mallet Town. The club is affiliated to the Somerset County FA. The old Shepton Mallet Town had spent 10 years in the Western League, six of which in the Premier Division. When that club went bust, the new Shepton Mallet A.F.C. took the place of the old club's reserves in the Somerset Senior League Division Two, playing at the old club's West Shepton ground. By 1989, they rose to the Premier Division of the County League and played there until winning the title in the 2000-01 season, when they were accepted into the Western League, and are currently members of the Western League Premier Division. They currently enter both the FA Cup and FA Vase, but do not have a very good record in either competition, In more recent years. The team have found a rise in success in both competitions, most notably the latter-winning six ties in the last eight FA Cup seasons, and ten ties in the last eight years in the Vase. In the...
The Maccan River is a tributary of the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, flowing in the municipality of L'le-d'Anticosti, in the Minganie Regional County Municipality, in the administrative region of Cte-Nord, in province of Quebec, in Canada. This valley is served by a forest road serving the upper part of this small valley especially for the needs of forestry and recreational tourism activities.  Geography  The Maccan River originates from a forest stream , located in the east-central part of the island. This source is located in a forest area at: 69.2 km west of Heath Point  20.2 km north of the south shore of Anticosti Island 23.5 km south of the north shore of Anticosti Island 139.7 km east of the town center of the village of Port-Menier. From its source, the Maccan river descends between the Petite rivire de la Chaloupe and the Ferre River . The Maccan River generally flows south, over 23.3 km with a drop of 204 m , according to the following segments: 17.3 km first to the southwest then to the south collecting two streams...
RIF opening rule is a renju opening rule. It was adopted by the Renju International Federation in 1996 as an upgrade to Swap opening rule and was an official rule for Renju World Championships from 1996 till 2008.  Rule details  The sequence of moves implied by the rule follows. The tentative Black plays all the first three moves two moves for black and one move for white i.e. he decides which of the 26 patterns that will be used. The tentative White decides which of the players that will play as Black and as White in the game . The now decided player being White makes the 4th move in an optional unoccupied intersection. Black has to make two different proposals for 5th stone. The proposals have to be unequal in all respects. White has the right to choose one of the two proposals from Black to become the 5th move of the game. The time for Black goes till he has given two correct proposals. For White the time goes till he has accepted one of the proposals and till he has made the 6th move which can be made in any unoccupied intersection. With the 5th move the special opening rules for the moves are ended...
El Banna v. Bush, No. 1:04-cv-01144, is a writ of habeas corpus that was submitted on behalf of the Guantanamo captives Jamil al-Banna, Bisher Al Rawi and Martin Mubanga. They were United Kingdom citizens or residents. George Brent Mickum was the lead counsel in this petition. In 2005, the defendants asked the United States District Court preserve records of the detainees' treatment.  Eligible to seek relief  On 3 July 2008, US District Court Judge Thomas F. Hogan listed this habeas petition on a list where former captives were eligible to seek relief.  References 
Patricia Joudry was a Canadian playwright and author.  Biography  Patricia was born in Spirit River, Alberta, the daughter of Clifford and Beth Joudry. While in her twenties, she began a career in radio broadcast, including co-writing the radio drama, The Aldrich Family from 1945-49. During her career, she wrote more than 300 plays, 250 of which were for radio broadcast. Her play Teach Me How to Cry was the basis of the 1958 film, The Restless Years. Starting as a CBS Sunday Night Series, Teach Me How To Cry eventually became Joudry's first stage play. After Teach Me How To Cry was awarded the distinction of 'Honours' at the Canadian Dominion Drama Festival it began to be broadcast in both London and New York. She became the first English-Canadian professional playwright to make a living from her writing in the 20th century. Patricia was a co-writer of the popular radio broadcast show, The Aldrich Family, a comedy series, broadcast from New York. At one point in her life, Joudry was earning one of the highest incomes of radio broadcasters in America. As well as being a self-proclaimed clairvoyant and a successful playwright and radio writer...
A DEA number is an identifier assigned to a health care provider such as a physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, optometrist, podiatrist, dentist, or veterinarian by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration allowing them to write prescriptions for controlled substances. Though there is no legal basis for preventing its use as a general prescriber identification number, for security reasons the DEA prefers that DEA registration numbers only be used for authenticating and tracking prescriptions for controlled substances. The agency prefers that the National Provider Identifier be used for general identification purposes.  Current format  A valid DEA number consists of: 2 letters, 6 numbers, and 1 check digit The first letter is a code identifying the type of registrant The second letter is the first letter of the registrant's last name, or 9 for registrants using a business address instead of name. Of the seven digits that follow, the seventh digit is a checksum that is calculated similarly to the Luhn algorithm, with the following steps: Add together the first, third and fifth digits call this CALC1,3,5 Add together...
President George W. Bush and Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra announced the intention to negotiate a US-Thailand free trade agreement on October 19, 2003, during President Bush's state visit to Thailand on the event of the APEC Leaders' meeting in Bangkok. Mr. Thaksin was deposed in the 2006 Thai coup d'tat without having finished negotiating the agreement.  See also  Siamese-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce of 1833, proclaimed June 24, 1837, a free-trade agreement except for munitions of war and opium, or to export rice, but without reciprocity Reciprocity Rules of Origin Market access Free-trade area Tariffs  External links  The US-Thailand Free Trade Agreement Business Coalition The White House Fact Sheet on Free Trade and Thailand FTA Watch - Site critical of Free Trade Agreements 
The 1956 Newfoundland general election was held on 2 October 1956 to elect members of the 31st General Assembly of Newfoundland. It was won by the Liberal party.  Results   Results by district  Names in boldface type represent party leaders.  indicates that the incumbent did not run again.  indicates that the incumbent ran in a different district.  St. John's   Conception Bay   Avalon Peninsula   Eastern Newfoundland   Central Newfoundland   Southern Newfoundland   Western Newfoundland   Labrador   Notes   References   Further reading  Riggs, Bert . General Election 31: October 6, 1956. Encyclopedia of Newfoundland and Labrador, volume 1. St. John's: Harry Cuff Publications Ltd. Retrieved April 12, 2025.
The Soviet Antarctic Expedition Russian:   , , Sovetskaya antarkticheskaya ekspeditsiya was a Soviet research institute. It was succeeded by the Russian Antarctic Expedition.  Governance and history  The Soviet Union's Ministry of Sea Transport was responsible for the administration, logistics and supply of the expeditions. The Soviet Antarctic Expedition was part of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute of the Soviet Committee on Antarctic Research of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. The first Soviet contact with Antarctica was in January 1947, when the Slava whaling flotilla began whaling in Antarctic waters. SAE was succeeded by the Russian Antarctic Expedition.  Expeditions  The Soviet Union engaged in expeditions to Antarctica from 1955 to its dissolution. After this, the Soviet Antarctic stations were taken over by Russia.  Stations  The first Soviet Antarctic station, Mirny, was established near the coast on February 13, 1956. In December 1957 another station, Vostok, was built inland near the South geomagnetic pole.  Year-round stations  Mirny Vostok established December...
Matthew Genitempo is an American photographer, living in Texas. He has produced three books of black and white photographs of landscapes and people in the Southern United States: Jasper , Mother of Dogs , and Dogbreath .  Early life and education  Genitempo was born in Houston, Texas. He graduated from Baylor University, Waco, T in 2007 with a degree in graphic design. In 2009, he and Jonathan Standefer co-created the web site Lamebook. Genitempo received an MFA from the University of Hartford, Hartford, CT in 2017.  Life and work  Genitempo's first book, Jasper , is a poetic exploration of the American landscape and the people who seek peace within its grasp, made in the forests and mountains of the Ozarks and of people who have sought escape in those woods. Made in black and white, it is named after Jasper, Arkansas where many of the pictures were made. The book Mother of Dogs captures the landscapes of Marfa, Texas, in black and white images taken on walks during the COVID-19 pandemic. It functions like a visual document of the ritual of walking with images of fields and dusty desert plains, backyards and railroad crossings...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 258 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In algebraic geometry, a cubic fourfold is a degree 3 hypersurface of dimension 4 in 5-dimensional projective space. Although some cubic fourfolds are known to be rational, it is known that very general cubic fourfolds are not rational, as proven by Katzarkov, Kontsevich, Pantev and Yu. Using geometric invariant theory , Radu Laza constructed a compactification of cubic fourfolds with ADE singularities . He further showed that this compactification is isomorphic, via the period map, to Looijenga's compactification of the complement of certain arrangement of hyperplanes in the period space. Yuchen Liu further showed that the GIT compactification is isomorphic to the K-moduli of cubic fourfolds.  References  Katzarkov, Ludmil Kontsevich, Maxim Pantev, Tony Yu, Tony Yue . Birational Invariants from Hodge Structures and Quantum Multiplication. ariv:2508.05105 . Laza, Radu . The moduli space of cubic fourfolds. J. Algebraic Geom. 18 . Amer. Math. Soc.: 511-545. ariv:0704.3256. doi:10.1090S1056-3911-08-00506-7. Retrieved 29 September 2025. Laza, Radu . The moduli space of cubic fourfolds via the period...
The following tables describe attributes of notable version control and software configuration management systems that can be used to compare and contrast the various systems. For SCM software not suitable for source code, see Comparison of open-source configuration management software.  General information  The following table contains relatively general attributes of version-control software systems, including: Repository model, the relationship between copies of the source code repository Client-server, users access a master repository via a client typically, their local machines hold only a working copy of a project tree. Changes in one working copy must be committed to the master repository before they are propagated to other users. Distributed, repositories act as peers, and users typically have a local repository with version history available, in addition to their working copies. Concurrency model, how changes to the working copy are managed to prevent simultaneous edits from causing nonsensical data in the repository. Lock, changes are disallowed until the user requests and receives an exclusive lock on the file from the master repository. Merge, users may freely...
Bitbucket is a Git-based source code repository hosting service owned by Atlassian. Bitbucket offers both commercial plans and free accounts with an unlimited number of private repositories.  Services   Bitbucket Cloud  Bitbucket Cloud is written in Python using the Django web framework. Bitbucket is mostly used for code and code review. Bitbucket supports the following features: Pull requests with code review and comments Bitbucket Pipelines, a continuous delivery service Two-step verification and required two-step verification IP whitelisting Merge Checks Code search Git Large File Storage Documentation, including automatically rendered README files in a variety of Markdown-like file formats Issue tracking Wikis Static sites hosted on Bitbucket Cloud: Static websites have the bitbucket.io domain in their URL Add-ons and integrations REST APIs to build third-party applications which can use any development language Snippets that allow developers to share code segments or files Smart Mirroring  Bitbucket Server  Bitbucket Server is a combination Git server and web interface product written in Java...
Git Along, Little Dogies is a traditional cowboy ballad, also performed under the title Whoopie Ti Yi Yo. It is cataloged as Roud Folk Song Index No. 827. Members of the Western Writers of America chose it as one of the Top 100 Western songs of all time. The dogies referred to in the song are runty or orphaned calves.  History  It is believed to be a variation of a traditional Irish ballad about an old man rocking a cradle. The cowboy adaptation is first mentioned in the 1893 journal of Owen Wister, author of The Virginian. Through Wister's influence, the melody and lyrics were first published in 1910 in John Lomax's Cowboy Songs and Other Frontier Ballads. Historian Richard White borrowed a line from the song as the title of his 1991 book It's Your Misfortune and None of My Own: A New History of the American West.  Notable performances  The earliest commercial recording of the song was by Harry Mac McClintock in 1929 released on Victor V-40016 as Get Along, Little Doggies. Roy Rogers performed the song in the 1940 film West of the Badlands. Bing Crosby covered the song for his 1959 album How the West Was Won. The Kingston Trio covered the song for their 1962 album...
Kernel-based Virtual Machine is a free and open-source virtualization module in the Linux kernel that allows the kernel to function as a hypervisor. It was merged into the mainline Linux kernel in version 2.6.20, which was released on February 5, 2007. KVM requires a processor with hardware virtualization extensions, such as Intel VT or AMD-V. KVM has also been ported to other operating systems such as FreeBSD and illumos in the form of loadable kernel modules. KVM was originally designed for x86 processors but has since been ported to zArchitecture, PowerPC, IA-64, and ARM. The IA-64 port was removed in 2014. KVM supports hardware-assisted virtualization for a wide variety of guest operating systems including BSD, Solaris, Windows, Haiku, ReactOS, Plan 9, AROS, macOS, and even other Linux systems. In addition, Android 2.2, GNUHurd , Minix 3.1.2a, Solaris 10 U3 and Darwin 8.0.1, together with other operating systems and some newer versions of these listed, are known to work with certain limitations. Additionally, KVM provides paravirtualization support for Linux, OpenBSD, FreeBSD, NetBSD, Plan 9 and Windows guests using the VirtIO API. This includes a paravirtual...
Booty Music is a song performed by the Florida-based crunk group Git Fresh . Produced by T-Pain, the song is the first single released by the group since they signed with the label So So Def Recordings in 2008 under the name Git Fresh, so named to represent a new beginning for their careers. Despite being a crunk song, the title booty music refers to Miami bass, a subgenre of hip hop music which originated in Miami, Florida. After Git Fresh recorded Booty Music in Atlanta, Georgia, a radio station in Reno, Nevada took a leaked copy of the song and played it numerous times before its official release. The group tolerated the leak, however, with member Pretty Sly later stating that We weren't upset at all, it really got us to where we are today. Though Booty Music did not enter the Billboard Hot RBHip-Hop Songs chart, it peaked at number nine on the Bubbling Under RBHip-Hop Singles chart. The song also became known in the Philippines politician Joel Garganera from Cebu City had his 2010 election jingle written with the melody of Booty Music.  References 
Ghost in the Shell is a Japanese cyberpunk military science fiction media franchise that began with the eponymous manga series, written and illustrated by Masamune Shirow. The manga, first serialized from 1989 to 1991, is set in the mid-21st-century and follows the fictional counter-cyberterrorist organization Public Security Section 9, led by protagonist Major Motoko Kusanagi. Animation studio Production I.G has produced several anime adaptations of the series. These include the 1995 film of the same name and its 2004 sequel, Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence the 2002 television series Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex and its 2020 follow-up, Ghost in the Shell: SAC2045 and the Ghost in the Shell: Arise original video animation series. An American-produced live-action film was released in March 2017. A direct adaptation of the manga produced by Science Saru, titled The Ghost in the Shell, aired in 2026.  Overview   Title  The original editor Koichi Yuri said that Shirow first submitted Ghost in the Shell as the title for the manga, but when Yuri asked for something more flashy, Shirow came up with  Koukaku Kidou Tai  for Yuri. However, Shirow was...
Mantis Bug Tracker is a free and open source, web-based bug tracking system. The most common use of MantisBT is to track software defects. However, MantisBT is often configured by users to serve as a more generic issue tracking system and project management tool. The name Mantis and the logo of the project refer to the insect family Mantidae, known for tracking and feeding on other insects, colloquially referred to as bugs. The name of the project is abbreviated to either MantisBT or just Mantis.  History  Kenzaburo Ito started the development of the Mantis Bug Tracking Project in 2000. In 2002, Kenzaburo was joined by Jeroen Latour, Victor Boctor, and Julian Fitzell to be the administrators, and it became a team project. Version 1.0.0 was released in February 2006. Version 1.1.0 was released in December 2007. In November 2008, after a long discussion, the project switched from using the Subversion revision control tool to Git, a distributed revision control tool. In February 2010, version 1.2.0 was released. In July 2012, the MantisBT organization on GitHub became the official repository for the Project's source code. Currently Mantis is running version 2.28.1  Features... 
uBlock Origin is a free and open-source browser extension for content filtering, including ad blocking. The extension is available for Firefox and Chromium-based browsers . uBlock Origin is actively developed and maintained by its creator and lead developer Raymond Hill and the open source community. As of June 2026, the Chrome version of uBlock Origin had over 29 million active users and the Firefox version has over 10.6 million active users, making it the most popular extension on Firefox.  History  The development of uBlock Origin came about by forking the codebase of HTTP Switchboard, an extension designed to give users control over browser requests. uBlock, which was the predecessor of uBlock Origin, was further influenced by uMatrix, another browser extension created by forking HTTP Switchboard.  HTTP Switchboard  HTTP Switchboard was initially released on September 20, 2013. It enabled users to control the types of requests made by their browser, providing a way to block specific types of web content. However, development of HTTP Switchboard ceased on May 18, 2015.  uMatrix  In anticipation of the end of HTTP...
Maia arson crimew previously known as Tillie Kottmann born August 7, 1999 is a Swiss developer, hacktivist, and anarchist. Crimew is known for leaking source code and other data from companies such as Intel and Nissan, and for discovering a 2019 copy of the United States government's No Fly List on an unsecured cloud server owned by CommuteAir. Crimew was also part of a group that hacked into Verkada in March 2021 and accessed more than 150,000 cameras. She is the founding developer of the Lawnchair application launcher for Android. In March 2021, crimew was indicted by a grand jury in the United States on criminal charges related to her alleged hacking activity between 2019 and 2021. The charges were unrelated to the hack of Verkada. Swiss police raided her home and her parents' home at the request of US authorities, and her electronic devices were seized. After the raid, people used the hashtag freetillie to express support for her, and the Swiss magazine Republik compared her to Jeremy Hammond and Aaron Swartz.  Early life  Crimew was born on August 7, 1999, in the Bruch district of Lucerne in the German-speaking region of Switzerland. As a teenager, she worked in information...
Mercurial is a distributed revision control tool for software developers. It is supported on Microsoft Windows, Linux, and other Unix-like systems, such as FreeBSD and macOS. Mercurial's major design goals include high performance and scalability, decentralization, fully distributed collaborative development, robust handling of both plain text and binary files, and advanced branching and merging capabilities, while remaining conceptually simple. It includes an integrated web-interface. Mercurial has also taken steps to ease the transition for users of other version control systems, particularly Subversion. Mercurial is primarily a command-line driven program, but graphical user interface extensions are available, e.g. TortoiseHg, and several IDEs offer support for version control with Mercurial. All of Mercurial's operations are invoked as arguments to its driver program hg a reference to Hg - the chemical symbol of the element mercury. Olivia Mackall originated Mercurial and served as its lead developer until late 2016. Mercurial is released as free software under the GPL-2.0-or-later license. It is mainly implemented using the Python programming language, but includes a binary diff...
Highway 283 is a designation for two north-south state highways in Southwest Arkansas. One route of 3.14 miles begins at Highway 7 and runs north to Highway 128 at Caney. A second route of 1.14 miles begins at US Highway 67 in Friendship and runs north across Interstate 30 to Caney Road. Both routes are maintained by the Arkansas Department of Transportation .  Route description   Highway 7 to Caney  Highway 283 begins at Highway 7 in northeast Clark County near DeGray Lake Resort State Park. The route winds northeast to cross De Roche Creek and enter Hot Spring County. Continuing north, Highway 283 intersects Highway 128 at Caney, where it terminates.  Friendship  Highway 283 begins at US 67 in Friendship and runs northwest as Caney Road to the city limits. Continuing northwest, Highway 283 crosses over I-30 at exit 83. The highway continues northwest for 0.3 miles , terminating at Post Oak Road and Penn Road. The roadway continues towards Caney as Caney Road.  Major intersections   History  The section near Caney was added to the state highway system on May 29, 1963...
Forrest Goodluck is a Native American actor. His debut film role was in the 2015 award-winner The Revenant, where he played Hawk, the son of Leonardo DiCaprio's character Hugh Glass. Goodluck was one of three actors to star as the lead Saul in the 2017 film Indian Horse. He had a supporting role in the 2018 film The Miseducation of Cameron Post as Adam Red Eagle, a two-spirit teenager who befriends Chlo Grace Moretz's title character at a conversion therapy camp. His other film appearances include the 2019 zombie horror Blood Quantum and the 2022 thriller How to Blow Up a Pipeline, in which he portrayed ecoterrorist Michael. In the 2023 horror prequel Pet Sematary: Bloodlines he played the new character of Manny. He starred in the 2025 supernatural film At the Place of Ghosts as Antle, one of the two leads. On television, Goodluck was part of the main cast of both The Republic of Sarah and Panhandle . He also appeared in the 2023 Paramount western miniseries Lawmen: Bass Reeves as Billy Crow.  Early life  A Native American, Goodluck was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. His father, Kevin, is Navajo. His mother Laurie's ancestry includes Navajo...
Hzin Zeneib Inshun was a monk and a martial artist who lived in the early Edo period. He was an Inju of Hozoin Temple, which was a branch temple of Kfuku-ji temple in Nara Prefecture. He was accomplished at the Hzin-ry sjutsu School of spearmanship, which was founded by Hzin In'ei and features the use of a Jumonji kama-yari a cross-shaped spear with a sickle on both sides of the blade  Biography  Inshun was a descendant of a goshi in Yamashiro Province. He was In'ei's nephew and entered the Hzin in 1602 when In'ei was already an old man of 81 years. Inshun was not trained in Hzin-ry sjutsu by In'ei but instructed by an old monk from the Okuzin a monastery in the neighborhood of the Hzin temple, who had been Inei's direct disciple. One year prior to his death In'ei forbade sjutsu training. This should have led to the extinction of at least the monastery line of the school. However, after In'ei's death, Inshun restarted his trainings and lifted the order. Inshun formed foundations for the prosperity of Hzin-ry in the Edo period. He established Urajuippon shikimoku...
Aurora Elvira Williams Baussa is a Chilean economist and politician affiliated with the Radical Party . She served as Minister of Mining under President Gabriel Boric, having been reappointed to the post in August 2023. She previously held the same position during the second administration of President Michelle Bachelet from 2014 to 2018, becoming the first and, so far, only person to serve a full presidential term as Minister of Mining in Chilean history.  Early life and education  Williams was born in Antofagasta, Chile, to Federico Williams Rojo and Rina Ester Baussa Ortiz. She earned a degree in ingeniera comercial-a program combining economics and business administration-from the Catholic University of the North, followed by a master's in Business Administration and Management from the University of Lleida in Spain. She also completed an MBA in Business Management and Training at IEDE Business School in Chile.  Career  Williams has worked in both the public and private sectors, primarily in executive roles. She served as client manager and later as administrative and financial manager at the Antofagasta Sanitary Services Company, and then as client...
The EasyCruise One styled as easyCruise One, also Easycruiseone was a cruise ship last owned by a private owner and last operated by EasyCruise.  History  It was originally built for Renaissance Cruises as the Renaissance II in 1990. In 1998 it was renamed as the gambling ship Neptune II for operations in Singapore. When EasyCruise was formed, Stelios Haji-Ioannou purchased the ship, gave it an extensive refit, and launched it as EasyCruise One in 2005. EasyCruise One was retired from the fleet in October 2008. The ship was sold soon after and was renamed Cruise One. The ship was planned to be converted into a luxury mega yacht. However, the Great Recession halted its conversion. The ship was laid up in Port Rashid in Dubai and later stored at a dry berth at the nearby Dubai Maritime City and was put up for sale. The asking cost and the cost to renovate the ship were too great and saw no buyers. The ship never saw any service again. In July 2022, the ship was sold for scrap and was broken up on-site together with the former HMAS Cook laid-up next to it soon after.  The ship as EasyCruise One  The ship's hull was originally painted orange with a white Easycruise.com website...
va Pusztai-Fahidi was a Hungarian author and Holocaust survivor. She and her family were deported to the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in 1944.  Early life  va Fahidi was born on 22 October 1925 in Debrecen and grew up in an upper-class Hungarian-Jewish family. In 1936, her family converted to Catholicism. On 29 April 1944, the Hungarian gendarmerie, who worked together with the Eichmann commando, arrested her, her parents Irma and Dezs Fahidi, and her eleven years old sister Gilike, and locked the family with other Jews in the city in a newly built ghetto that served as a prison. On 14 May 1944, they were deported to the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp where her mother and sister were selected to die in the gas chambers by SS doctor Josef Mengele. Her father died from inhuman prison conditions. After six weeks, she was transferred to the Mnchmhle satellite camp belonging to the Buchenwald concentration camp, where she had to work for 12 hours a day for the Allendorf and Herrenwald explosives plants. At the end of the war, she was able to escape during a death march.  After the Nazis  After months of wandering as a displaced...
Roberto Mateos born April 28, 1963, in Mexico City, Distrito Federal, Mexico, is a Mexican actor of telenovelas. He is best known for his performance in most successful telenovelas productions such as Televisa, Venevision and Telemundo. He lives in Mexico City and Miami with wife and son.  Filmography   Films   Television   References   External links  Roberto Mateos at IMDb
The Bible Presbyterian Church is an American Protestant denomination in the Reformed tradition. It was founded by members of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church over differences on eschatology and abstinence, after having left the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America over the rise of modernism. The denomination comprises 31 churches, 30 in the United States and 1 church in Alberta, Canada divided between the Great Western Presbytery, the Eastern Presbytery, the Great Lakes Presbytery, and the Florida Presbytery. The highest governing body is the Synod.  History   Origin  The Bible Presbyterian Church was formed in 1937, predominantly through the efforts of such conservative Presbyterian clergymen as Carl McIntire, J. Oliver Buswell and Allan MacRae. Francis Schaeffer was the first minister to be ordained in the new denomination . The First General Synod of the Bible Presbyterian Church was held in 1938 in Collingswood, New Jersey. The Bible Presbyterian Church and the Orthodox Presbyterian Church split in 1937. The two groups were previously known as the Presbyterian Church of America not to be confused with the similar but later...
This is a list of online mapping services that provide street-level imagery, grouped by world region.  Worldwide  Google Street View is the most comprehensive street view service in the world. It provides street view for more than 85 countries worldwide. Apple Look Around provides street view for 36 countries. Microsoft Bing Streetside offered street view via right click in Bing Maps. The Mapillary project collects crowdsourced images from its users, which are licensed under a CC BY-SA license. KartaView was created by TeleNav and is very similar to Mapillary both by using crowdsourced imagery and for licensing the images as CC BY-SA. Panoramax, an open-source street view software that can federate between different instances. Includes instances by OpenStreetMap chapters , the French Institut national de l'information gographique et forestire, and others.  Africa  Morocco Morocco: Carte.ma provides panoramic streetsides for quite a few cities in Morocco. Nigeria Nigeria: Moriwo offers panoramic street views of Lagos.  Asia  Armenia: Russian company Yandex offers street panoramas for Yerevan. Bangladesh: Bangladeshi...
Queen Seonpyeong of the Gim clan was the older sister of Gim Yi-yeong who became the fourth wife of King Injong of Goryeo upon their marriage in 1127. She was treated well even after his death by became the Princess Yeonsu and Dowager Consort which was little lower than a queen mother since his successors were all came from Queen Im, who became the queen dowager. Meanwhile, she was later died in 1179 and received her posthumous name, Seonpyeong .  In popular culture  Portrayed by Kim Bo-mi in the 2003-4 KBS TV series Age of Warriors.  References   External links  Queen Seonpyeong on the Encyclopedia of Korean Culture .
Thomson is a Type 209 submarine, 1400-l variant and referred to as the Thomson class. The boat was built for the Chilean Navy by Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft shipyards in Kiel, Germany. The boats namesake is Manuel Thomson Porto Mario, who died as commander of the Huscar, during the blockade of Arica in the War of the Pacific. Thomson is homeported in Talcahuano. A systems modernisation was carried out between 2007 and 2009. She has one sister ship in Chilean service Simpson.  References 
Mesonauta, the flag cichlids, is a small genus of cichlids native to the Amazon, Orinoco, Essequibo, Paran and Paraguay basins in South America. Mesonauta is included in the subfamily Cichlasomatinae. They occur in various freshwater habitats such as streams and lakes, especially in areas with little water movement and aquatic vegetation. They are generally found in small groups that stay near the water surface. To avoid predators, adults may jump out of the water and juveniles mimic leaves. Some species are popular in the fishkeeping hobby and are frequently kept in aquariums. These have traditionally been referred to as M. festivus, but following taxonomic reviews of the genus in 1991 and 1998, the species most often seen in the aquarium trade are M. guyanae, M. insignis and M. mirificus. The species are similar in general appearance, but they have different distributions and can be separated by the bars they show on the body when stressed or excited .  Species  There are currently seven recognized species in this genus: Mesonauta acora Mesonauta egregius S. O. Kullander  Silfvergrip, 1991 Mesonauta festivus Flag cichlid...
Zhai iang Chinese:  pinyin: Zhi ing, born 3 December 1992 is a Chinese para table tennis player. He won a gold medal at the 2016 Summer Paralympics.  Personal life  Zhai's disability is due to a neural tube defect.  References   External links  Zhai iang at ITTF Para Table Tennis Zhai iang at the International Paralympic Committee
John Brad Bradbury was an English drummer and record producer. He is best known for having been the drummer in the English ska group the Specials.  Early life and education  Bradbury was born in Coventry, where his father, Bert, was a painter and decorator for the council, and his mother, Joan, worked first for GEC and then at Walsgrave Hospital, where she helped with care in the maternity ward. She was staunchly anti-racist and concerned with immigrants' rights, and her views had a powerful effect on her son. He became fascinated by drumming as a child, and when he was eight his mum bought him a drum kit. According to his sister, Jill, she then put egg boxes on the walls to stop the sound reaching the neighbours. Bradbury had three elder sisters, and it was they who took him to clubs and first introduced him to northern soul. He attended Binley Park school in Coventry, and went on to study fine art at Hull Art College. Later he took a teaching course in Birmingham, where he taught art and English. Back in Coventry, he became part of a small group of former art students and music fans who included Jerry Dammers,...
A game is an activity defined by a challenge and a set of rules, typically done for enjoyment, competition, or development. Games may be played informally or in professional competitive settings before audiences. Popular formats include board games, card games, video games, and sports, distinguished from unstructured play by having rules. Scholars have long debated the essence of games, with no single definition achieving universal acceptance. Games are a universal feature of human culture. The Royal Game of Ur and Senet are among the oldest known games, dating back to at least 2600 BCE. Throughout history, games have served as tools for entertainment, teaching, ritual, and socialization. In the modern era, the global video game industry has grown to surpass both film and music in annual revenue, reflecting how central games have become to contemporary life. Philosophically, games have attracted attention as a test case for the nature of rules and meaning. Psychologists link play to cognitive development in children and to the intense, satisfying concentration called flow in adults. Game theory uses the structure of games to model decision making in fields such as economics and evolutionary...
The Latin Grammy Award for Best Music for Visual Media is an award presented annually by the Latin Academy of Recording Arts  Sciences at the Latin Grammy Awards. The description of the category at the 2025 Latin Grammy Awards states that it is for original music created to accompany and enrich the storyline of movies, television series, video games, and other visual media. In order to be eligible, the project must have been recorded specifically to accompany a visual production and have a duration of at least 15 minutes of the original music. The award is presented to the composer and artist with significant contributions. The category was introduced at the 26th Annual Latin Grammy Awards in 2025, alongside the category for Best Roots Song.  Winners and nominees   References   External links  Official website of the Latin Grammy Awards
John S. Werner is an American scientist who studies human vision and its changes across the life span. He is a Distinguished Professor at the University of California, Davis in the Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, and Department of Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior. His work has been cited more than 18,000 times.  Education  John Werner graduated in 1974 from the University of Kansas with BA and MA degrees. He received his doctoral degree in 1979 from Brown University. His research was supervised by Billy Rex Wooten and Lewis P. Lipsitt. With support from a NATO-NSF fellowship, he conducted postdoctoral research in the laboratory of Jan Walraven at the Institute for Perception in Soesterberg, The Netherlands. Later, he received a DAAD fellowship to work with Lothar Spillmann in the Department of Neurology at the University of Freiburg.  Research  His research is concerned with the transformations of signals, quantified psychophysically, from photoreceptors to postreceptoral processes, and color appearance. This work demonstrates changes in sensitivity of all three cone pathways from infancy to old age. His laboratory has also developed...
Chthamalia is a genus of flowering plants in the dogbane family . The genus was first formally named in 1844. It contains approximately 21 species native to Mexico and the southern United States. Chthamalia is accepted as a genus by Plants of the World Online, but is considered by some others to be a synonym or a subgenus of Matelea. 21 SPECIES accepted by Plants of the World Online as of May 17, 2025: Chthamalia atrostellata Morillo  USA  Mexico Chthamalia biflora Decne.  USA Chthamalia brevicoronata Morillo  USA Chthamalia camporum Morillo  Mexico Chthamalia castanea Morillo  Mexico Chthamalia chihuahuensis Morillo  USA  northern Mexico Chthamalia cynanchoides Morillo  USA Central Oklahoma to SE Texas and W Louisiana Chthamalia decumbens L.O.Alvarado  E.B.Cortez  Mexico Chthamalia lesueurii Morillo  Mexico Chthamalia nummularia Decne.  Mexico Chthamalia ojadapantha L.O.Alvarado, S.Islas  M.G.Chvez...
This page lists significant events in 2025 in archaeology.  Excavations  Summer - Excavation of Bronze Age site on St Michael's Mount, Cornwall . August - Excavations started at the site of Scotland's first skatepark, Kelvin Wheelies in Kelvingrove Park, Glasgow . Sweet wrappers were used to date its infilling.  Finds   January  9 A joint French-Swiss archaeological team uncovered the richly decorated tomb of Tetinebefou, a high-status healer or wizard doctor, dating to Egypt's 5th Dynasty, near the Saqqara necropolis, revealing rare medical instruments and inscriptions indicating his role as a priest and physician. Archaeologists announced the recovery of medieval royal treasures that had been hidden in the crypts of the Vilnius Cathedral in Lithuania since the outbreak of World War II in 1939. 14 - Mexico's Instituto Nacional de Antropologa e Historia reported on the results of a mapping project, begun in 2018, that unveiled the lay-out of 'baatn's core area. 17 - The director of the Pompeii Archeological Park revealed the discovery of a large thermal complex.  February  12 - The Museum of London Archaeology announced the find of remains of the...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 269 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In deep learning, the transformer is a family of artificial neural network architectures based on the multi-head attention mechanism, in which input data such as text, images, or audio, is converted to a sequence of numerical representations called tokens, and each token is converted into a vector via lookup from a word embedding table. At each layer, each token is then contextualized within the scope of the context window with other tokens via a parallel multi-head attention mechanism, allowing the signal for key tokens to be amplified and less important tokens to be diminished. Because self-attention alone is permutation-invariant, transformers inject positional information, typically through positional encodings or learned positional embeddings, so token order can affect the output. Transformers have the advantage of having no recurrent units, therefore requiring less training time than earlier recurrent neural architectures such as long short-term memory . Later variations have been widely adopted for training large language models on large datasets. Modern transformer designs are commonly grouped into encoder-only, decoder-only, and encoder...
In machine learning, grokking, or delayed generalization, is a phenomenon observed in some settings where a model abruptly transitions from overfitting to generalizing performing well on both training and test data, after many training iterations with little or no improvement on the held-out data. This contrasts with what is typically observed in machine learning, where generalization occurs gradually alongside improved performance on training data.  Origin  The term grokking was introduced by OpenAI researcher Alethea Power and colleagues in the January 2022 paper Grokking: Generalization Beyond Overfitting on Small Algorithmic Datasets. It is derived from the word grok coined by Robert Heinlein in his novel Stranger in a Strange Land. In ML research, grokking is not used as a synonym for generalization rather, it names a sometimes-observed delayedgeneralization training phenomenon in which training and heldout performance do not improve in tandem, and in which heldout performance rises abruptly after a long period in which test performance has reached what appears to be a maximum value. Authors also analyze the grokking time...
Artificial intelligence is the capability of computational systems to perform tasks typically associated with human intelligence, such as learning, reasoning, problem-solving, perception, and decision-making. It is a field of research in engineering, mathematics, and computer science that develops and studies methods and software that enable machines to perceive their environment and use learning and intelligence to take actions that maximise their chances of achieving defined goals. High-profile applications of AI include advanced web search engines, chatbots, virtual assistants, autonomous vehicles, play and analysis in strategy games , and content generation . The traditional goals of AI research include learning, reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, natural language processing, and perception, as well as support for robotics. To reach these goals, AI researchers use techniques including state space search and mathematical optimisation, formal logic, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, operations research, and economics. AI also draws upon psychology, linguistics, philosophy, neuroscience...
Multimodal learning is a type of deep learning that integrates and processes multiple types of data, referred to as modalities, such as text, audio, images, or video. This integration allows for a more holistic understanding of complex data, improving model performance in tasks like visual question answering, cross-modal retrieval, text-to-image generation, aesthetic ranking, and image captioning. Multimodal learning was proposed in 2011 at the beginning of the deep learning period. Large multimodal models, such as Google Gemini and GPT-4o, have become increasingly popular since 2023, enabling increased versatility and a broader understanding of real-world phenomena.  Motivation  Data usually comes with different modalities which carry different information. For example, it is very common to caption an image to convey the information not presented in the image itself. Similarly, sometimes it is more straightforward to use an image to describe information which may not be obvious from text. As a result, if different words appear in similar images, then these words likely describe the same thing. Conversely, if a word is used to describe seemingly dissimilar images, then these images...
The International Conference on Learning Representations is a machine learning conference typically held in late April or early May each year. Along with NeurIPS and ICML, it is one of the three primary conferences of highest impact and reputation in machine learning and artificial intelligence research. The conference includes invited talks as well as oral and poster presentations of refereed papers. Since its inception in 2013, ICLR has employed an open peer review process to referee paper submissions . It was founded by Yann LeCun and Yoshua Bengio in 2012.  Editions   See also  ICML NeurIPS AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence  Notes   References   External links  Official website
In machine learning, supervised learning is a type of machine learning paradigm where an algorithm learns to map input data to a specific output based on example input-output pairs. This process involves training a statistical model using labeled data, meaning each piece of input data is provided with the correct output. The term supervised refers to the role of a teacher or supervisor who provides this training data, guiding the algorithm towards correct predictions. For instance, if you want a model to identify cats in images, supervised learning would involve feeding it many images of cats that are explicitly labeled cat . The goal of supervised learning is for the trained model to accurately predict the output for new, unseen data. This requires the algorithm to effectively generalize from the training examples, a quality measured by its generalization error. Supervised learning is commonly used for tasks such as classification predicting a category, e.g., spam or not spam, regression predicting a numerical value, e.g., a house price, and conditional density estimation predicting the probability distribution of the output given an input, denoted by...
In machine learning and pattern recognition, a feature is an individual measurable property or characteristic of a data set. Choosing informative, discriminating, and independent features is crucial to producing effective algorithms for pattern recognition, classification, and regression tasks. Features are usually numeric, but other types such as strings and graphs are used in syntactic pattern recognition, after some pre-processing step such as one-hot encoding. The concept of features is related to that of explanatory variables used in statistical techniques such as linear regression.  Feature types  In feature engineering, two types of features are commonly used: numerical and categorical. Numerical features are continuous values that can be measured on a scale. Examples of numerical features include age, height, weight, and income. Numerical features can be used in machine learning algorithms directly. Categorical features are discrete values that can be grouped into categories. Examples of categorical features include gender, color, and zip code. Categorical features typically need to be converted to numerical features before they can be used in machine learning algorithms...
In artificial intelligence and cloud computing, compute is the amount of computing power or computational resources required to train large language models. More broadly, compute is the computational power or resources necessary for a computer or computer program to function.  Definition  Compute is commonly defined as the amount of computing power or computational resources required to train machine learning and large language models. The term compute has also been more broadly applied to cloud computing, referencing processing power, memory, networking, storage, and other resources required for the computation of any program. Compute is measured in petaflops-days and is used to document AI training. A petaflops-day consists of performing 1015 neural net operations per second for one day, or a total of about 1020 operations. The compute-time product serves as a mental convenience, similar to kilowatt-hour for energy. An amount of compute is meant to give an idea of the number of actual operations performed.  History  The noun compute was relatively uncommon, though not unheard of, before gaining wider usage in fields such as cloud computing and artificial intelligence...
In machine learning , a learning curve is a graphical representation that shows how a model's performance on a training set changes with the number of training iterations or the amount of training data. Typically, the number of training epochs or training set size is plotted on the x-axis, and the value of the loss function and possibly some other metric such as the cross-validation score on the y-axis. Synonyms include error curve, experience curve, improvement curve and generalization curve. More abstractly, learning curves plot the difference between learning effort and predictive performance, where learning effort usually means the number of training samples, and predictive performance means accuracy on testing samples. Learning curves have many useful purposes in ML, including: choosing model parameters during design, adjusting optimization to improve convergence, and diagnosing problems such as overfitting . Learning curves can also be tools for determining how much a model benefits from adding more training data, and whether the model suffers more from a variance error or a bias error. If...
In machine learning and optimal control, reinforcement learning also known as approximate dynamic programming is concerned with how an intelligent agent should take actions in a dynamic environment in order to maximize a reward signal. Reinforcement learning is one of the three basic machine learning paradigms, alongside supervised learning and unsupervised learning. While supervised learning and unsupervised learning algorithms respectively attempt to discover patterns in labeled and unlabeled data, reinforcement learning involves training an agent through interactions with its environment. To learn to maximize rewards from these interactions, the agent makes decisions between trying new actions to learn more about the environment , or using current knowledge of the environment to take the best action . The search for the optimal balance between these two strategies is known as the exploration-exploitation dilemma. The environment is typically stated in the form of a Markov decision process, as many reinforcement learning algorithms use dynamic programming techniques. The main difference between classical dynamic programming methods and reinforcement...
In machine learning , boosting is an ensemble learning method that combines a set of less accurate models to create a single, highly accurate model . Unlike other ensemble methods that build models in parallel , boosting algorithms build models sequentially. Each new model in the sequence is trained to correct the errors made by its predecessors. This iterative process allows the overall model to improve its accuracy, particularly by reducing bias. Boosting is a popular and effective technique used in supervised learning for both classification and regression tasks. The theoretical foundation for boosting came from a question posed by Kearns and Valiant : Can a set of weak learners create a single strong learner? A weak learner is defined as a classifier that performs only slightly better than random guessing, whereas a strong learner is a classifier that is highly correlated with the true classification. Robert Schapire's affirmative answer to this question in a 1990 paper led to the development of practical boosting algorithms. The first such algorithm was developed by Schapire, with Freund and Schapire...
Juman Malouf is a Lebanese fashion designer, costume designer, illustrator, and author.  Early life and education  Malouf was born in Beirut, Lebanon. She is the daughter of Lebanese novelist Hanan al-Shaykh. She was six months old when her family fled to the United Kingdom following the events of the Lebanese Civil War. They spent two years in London before moving to Saudi Arabia, where her father, construction engineer Fouad Malouf, was based. They spent six years in Khobar, before moving back to London. Malouf attended Brown University where she earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Fine Art and Art History. She later attended New York University Tisch School of the Arts and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree in set and costume design.  Career  After graduation, Malouf started her early-aughts cult fashion design company Charlotte Corday. She also worked as an assistant to the stylist Yvonne Sporre, before turning her full attention to illustration. Malouf's first book, The Trilogy of Two, is a children's fantasy novel published in 2018 by Pushkin Press. She worked on Trilogy for about six years, while also collaborating on Wes Anderson's films The Grand...
Liberation at Riverton is an adventure published by Timeline in 1982 for the post-apocalyptic role-playing game The Morrow Project.  Contents  A Project Morrow team awakens from cryogenic sleep 150 years after a nuclear holocaust, but with no orders. When they emerge from their Bolthole, they find a heavily armed dictator in charge of the entire district. With only a bare amount of equipment, the team must try to liberate the impoverished inhabitants. The book also updates the rules on combat damage caused by armored vehicles, and includes the floorplan of a typical Bolthole - the cryogenic hideout that holds sleeping Project Morrow teams background details on the Project and the players' gear that were not included in the original rulebook and detailed interior views of the players' vehicle.  Publication history  Timeline published the post-apocalyptic role-playing game The Morrow Project in 1980, and between 1982 and 2013, published eleven adventures, the first in 1982 being Liberation at Riverton, a 44-page book written by Bill Worzel and H.N. Voss, with artwork by Voss.  Reception  In Issue 56 of The Space Gamer, William A. Barton commented Liberation at Riverton...
The Lutheran Church in Great Britain is a small Protestant Christian church in the United Kingdom. The LCiGB is a member church of the Lutheran World Federation and of The Lutheran Council of Great Britain, the umbrella organisation for several Lutheran churches in Great Britain, many of which are chaplaincies or congregations that are closely related to Lutheran churches in other countries. The LCiGB is also a member of the Porvoo Communion of Anglican and Lutheran churches in Europe. It is, in common with many Lutheran churches, led by a bishop and a council of lay members and clergy elected at its annual synod. Tor Berger Jrgensen, former bishop of the Diocese of Sr-Hlogaland in the Church of Norway, was received as the fourth bishop of the LCiGB on 6 October 2019.  History  The English Reformation did not follow the Lutheran pattern, but was instead largely influenced by ideas stemming from the Reformation in Switzerland and its parallel in Strasbourg. It is well known that Henry VIII did not favour the Lutheran cause. However, there were some English adherents of Lutheranism. A group of theologians at the University of Cambridge, which met at the White Horse tavern...
The Mt. Moriah Masonic Temple is a historic building in Kadoka, South Dakota. It was constructed in 1917, as a meeting hall for Mt. Moriah Lodge No. 155 . The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2004 as Mt. Moriah Masonic Lodge No. 155. It has also been known as the Kadoka Masonic Hall. It has a two-story pedimented portico with Doric columns and pilasters.  References 
Andrea Carlo Lucchesi was an Anglo-Italian sculptor, born and trained in London, who had a career in the United Kingdom as an exponent of the naturalistic and symbolist New Sculpture. His portrait of Queen Victoria is on the facade of the Art Gallery, at Bath. Lucchesi received his early training from his father, also a sculptor, and at the West London School of Art he first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1881. In 1882 his Waif won him acceptance at the Royal Academy schools, where he remained five years . He was a member of the Art Workers Guild, established in 1884 to promote the unity of the arts Lucchesi specialised in the female nude, naturalistically represented under allegorical titles, such as Destiny and the undisguisedly erotic Myrtle's Altar , manifesting clear influences of Art Nouveau and, in the finely modelled symbolic representations of crown, sword, spilled bag of coins, of Symbolism. In addition to his own work, he assisted Henry Hugh Armstead and Edward Onslow Ford, and provided models for electroplate silverware by Elkington  Company and the Crown Jewelers, Garrard's. He also produced portrait busts: his...
William Shirreffs was a Scottish sculptor in the 19th century. He served as one of the chosen sculptors of the figures depicting characters from the novels of Sir Walter Scott on the Scott Monument on Princes Street in Edinburgh and was the sculptor of the figures on the north entrance porch of Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum.  Life  He was born in Huntly, Aberdeenshire, to James Shirreffs and his wife, Mary Wagrel, in 1846 and was baptised in the same parish on 14 April 1846. He studied at Glasgow School of Art under William Mossman from 1870 to 1873, winning a free scholarship in 1872. In 1877 he opened his own studio at 108 West Regent Street and in 1887 opened his own foundry at 261 West George Street, probably with his brother, Charles Gordon Shirreffs , who was a brass-founder. He worked closely with the architect J J Burnet on several projects. He also did co-operative works with other sculptors such as Sir George Frampton, John Rhind and Pittendreigh MacGillivray. He exhibited at the Royal Academy in London in 1896. For the Kelvingrove Art Gallery, he visited Paris with Frampton to study sculptures on contemporary French buildings. He...
Nicholas or Nick Martin, or Martyn may refer to: Nicholas Martyn , MP Nick Martin , American musician and guitarist for Sleeping with Sirens Nik Martin , American musician Nicholas G. Martin , behavior geneticist Nick Martin , American technologist, entrepreneur and educator Nick Martin , American football player Nick Martin , American football player Nic Martin , Australian rules footballer Mikls Martin , Hungarian water polo player, known as Nick Nick R. Martin, American journalist Nick Martin , English rugby union player Nicholas Martin of The Cherry Orchard Nicholas Martin, screenwriter of the film Florence Foster Jenkins Nicholas Martin , see 2010-11 Australian Baseball League regular season Nicholas Martin , see 2011 ISAF Sailing World Championships - Men's 470 Nic Martin, known professionally as UNO Stereo, Australian record producer
Lily of the Valley is the debut studio album by Irish alternative rock band Funeral Suits. It was released on 4 June 2012, by Model Citizen Records.  Singles  The first track from album, Machines was released as a music video on 5 February 2009. On 14 April 2011, Funeral Suits released the second music video Colour Fade.  Critical reception  In a review for DIY, El Hunt wrote: On the ominously named Lily Of The Valley - with all its symbolic associations with death and mourning - the listener happily gobbles it up for breakfast lunch and tea. This is in part due to the band's impressive command of their craft, and also the album's place in the almost foolproof hands of Stephen Street. At The 405, critic reviewer Alex Walker noted: Although the record is not revolutionary, nor would it have been even if had been released a year and a half ago. It is however a very solid debut release heartfelt and sincere, brimming with a variety of well conceived ideas. The band have a genuine knack for crafting big, epic, extravagant guitar moments complimented throughout by intelligent electronic arrangements.  Track listing   References   External links  Lily of the Valley...
The Society of Saint Francis is an international Franciscan religious order within the Anglican Communion. It is the main recognised Anglican Franciscan order, but there are also other Franciscan orders in the Anglican Communion.  Background  Francis of Assisi and Clare of Assisi, the founders of the Franciscan movement, produced separate rules for three parallel orders, which still co-exist as parts of the Franciscan family today: The First Order were to be mendicant friars, embracing poverty as a gift from God and living the community life in the world and serving the poor. The Second Order were to be a parallel community of sisters living a more enclosed life of prayer and contemplation. The Third Order was to consist of brothers and sisters not living in community, nor under full monastic vows, but nevertheless taking simple promises and following a rule of life in the world. Within Anglicanism, the Brothers of the First Order are called the Society of Saint Francis  the Sisters of the First Order are called the Community of Saint Francis  the Sisters of the Second Order are called the Community of Saint Clare  and the Brothers and Sisters of the Third...
Prince Eugenio of Savoy, 5th Duke of Genoa Eugenio Alfonso Carlo Maria Giuseppe 13 March 1906 - 8 December 1996 was a member of the House of Savoy, Duke of Ancona from birth, and the 5th and final Duke of Genoa. Prince Eugenio was the sixth and youngest child of Prince Thomas of Savoy, 2nd Duke of Genoa and his wife Princess Isabella of Bavaria.  Marriage and issue  Prince Eugenio married Princess Lucia of the Two Sicilies, fifth child and fourth-eldest daughter of Prince Ferdinand Pius of the Two Sicilies, Duke of Calabria and his wife Princess Maria Ludwiga Theresia of Bavaria, on 29 October 1938 at Nymphenburg Palace in Munich, Germany. The bride and groom were second cousins once removed in descent from King Ludwig I of Bavaria. Prince Eugenio and Princess Lucia had one daughter: Princess Maria Isabella Elena Immacolata Barbara Anna Pace of Savoy-Genoa , married on 29 April 1971 in Lausanne, Alberto Frioli dei Conti di Rezzano , son of Guido Frioli, Count of Rezzano, and Vittoria Fabbri. They have four children. Don Vctor Eugenio Frioli , married Soraia Barbosa and had issue. Donna Mara Cristina...
The 86th New York Film Critics Circle Awards, honoring the best in film for 2020, were announced on December 18, 2020. Winners accepted their awards in a ceremony streamed online on January 24, 2021, which was held virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Winners  Best Film: First Cow Best Director: Chlo Zhao - Nomadland Best Actor: Delroy Lindo - Da 5 Bloods Best Actress: Sidney Flanigan - Never Rarely Sometimes Always Best Supporting Actor: Chadwick Boseman - Da 5 Bloods Best Supporting Actress: Maria Bakalova - Borat Subsequent Moviefilm Best Screenplay: Eliza Hittman - Never Rarely Sometimes Always Best Animated Film: Wolfwalkers Best Cinematography: Shabier Kirchner - Small Axe Best Non-Fiction Film: Time Best Foreign Language Film: Bacurau  Brazil Best First Film: Radha Blank - The Forty-Year-Old Version Special Award: Spike Lee and Kino Lorber  References   External links  Official website
J. Davy Kirkpatrick is an American astronomer at the Infrared Processing and Analysis Center at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, California. Kirkpatrick's research was named one of the top ten science accomplishments of the first ten years of the W. M. Keck Observatory and one of the Top 100 Stories of 2011 by Discover Magazine.  Career   Education  Kirkpatrick received a BS in mathematics and physicsastronomy from Vanderbilt University in 1986 and a PhD in astronomy from the University of Arizona in 1992. He was a W. J. McDonald Fellow at the University of Texas at Austin from 1992-1994, a National Research Council Fellow at JPL from 1994-1996, and a NICMOS Fellow at UCLA from 1996-1997 before being hired at Caltech, where he works today.  Brown Dwarfs and Low-mass Stars  Much of Kirkpatrick's research has concentrated on the discovery and characterization of the lowest mass stars and brown dwarfs. After refining the far optical and near-infrared classifications of M dwarfs in the early 1990s and publishing the first spectrum of the brown dwarf candidate GD 165B, which would later be referred to as the first L dwarf discovery, Kirkpatrick...
Christina Henriette Jerney Kaagman was a Dutch singer-musician and music executive best known as the lead singer for the progressive rock group Earth and Fire, with which she scored a slew of international hits between 1969 and 1990. She recorded as a solo artist also, and after her career as a singer, worked for the music industry, as president of the Dutch musicians' union BV Pop as a public relations manager for a radio station and on television, as a judge on television talent show Idols from 2002 to 2008.  Early life and career  Kaagman attended high school at Huygens Lyceum, Voorburg, and was a member of the school choir and a school band, The Rangers. She also completed a secretarial course. In September 1969 she was invited to sing in the pop group Earth and Fire. After the band split in 1983, she made two solo albums and appeared in the first issue of Dutch Playboy . She made another appearance at the age of 60 in April 2008. Kaagman was president of the Dutch musicians' union BV Pop. In the nineties, she was the public relations manager at the radio station Noordzee FM, and in 2000 she became director of Buma Culture Foundation...
Gammel Kongevej 25, situated opposite St. Jrgen's Lake, on the border between Vesterbro and Frederiksberg in Copenhagen, Denmark, consists of a five-storey Late Neoclassical residential building fronting the street and the former Emil Messerschmidt's Tannery on its rear. The three-winged tannery complex is one of relatively few surviving examples of the many minor industrial enterprises that once dominated the courtyards of Copenhagen's Vesterbro and Nrrebro districts. The current buildings were constructed by Emil Messerschmidt after a fire in 1867 and later continued by his two eldest sons until another fire in 1907. A commemorative plaque on the facade of the building commemorates that the resistance fighter Ingolf Larsen-Ledet was killed on the site when he jumped out of a window in an attempt to escape from the Gestapo during World War II.  History  The tannery was founded in 1844 by Christian William Messerschmidt , a retired army officer with rank of major. In 1853, he ceded it to his son, Emil Messerschmidt , who moved it to its current location. The large quantities of water that played an essential role in the production process was...
Whitefish Lake is located in the Thunder Bay District in Northwestern Ontario, Canada, near the village of Nolalu. The lake contains walleye, pike, and small mouth bass but is noted for its perch fishing. The average depth of Whitefish Lake is seven feet. Access to the lake is a public launch located on Highway 588 and many independent tourist resorts. Whitefish Lake is 11.7 square miles and has a maximum depth of 22 feet . The lake drains into Lake Superior via the Little Whitefish River.  References 
Events from the year 1441 in France.  Incumbents  Monarch - Charles VII  Events  7 June - The University of Bordeaux is founded June - Richard, Duke of York arrives in Normandy following his appointment as English commander in the Hundred Years War  Births  11 November Charlotte of Savoy, wife of Louis I  Deaths  5 January - John II of Luxembourg, Count of Ligny, soldier  References 
Reginald Lee Harris was a North Carolina politician who served as Speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives in 1933 and as the 19th Lieutenant Governor of North Carolina from 1941 to 1945 serving under Governor J. Melville Broughton. A Democrat, Harris lived in Roxboro, North Carolina.  References  OurCampaigns.com Rootsweb
Carrick Furnace is a historic iron furnace located at Metal Township in Franklin County, Pennsylvania. The property includes the limestone furnace stack, a Peter L. Weimer blowing engine , boilers for the steam engine, and the charging ramp, engine house, and cast house foundations. The furnace was built in 1828 by General Samuel Dunn , and measures 30 feet square at the base and 30 feet high. Furnace operations were suspended in 1837, the property sold in 1843, then leased in 1850 to Witherow and Walker. The furnace was converted in 1879 to a hot blast with the installation of the steam-powered blowing engine. The furnace went out of blast in 1884, and was donated to the Franklin County Historical Society-Kittochtinney in 1935. In February 2020, the Carrick Furnace was purchased by the Path Valley Historical Society. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1991.  References   External links  Carrick Furnace - Iron Furnace Ruins on Waymarking.com Franklin County Historical Society website
Herodian architecture is a style of classical architecture characteristic of the numerous building projects undertaken during the reign of Herod the Great, who ruled Judaea as a client kingdom of the Roman Empire. Herod undertook many colossal building projects, most famously his reconstruction of the Temple in Jerusalem . Many of his structures were built upon comparable, previous Hasmonean buildings and most of his have, in their turn, vanished as well. Herod's architectural endeavors are distinguished by their strategic placement to maximize dramatic vistas, evident in locations such as the northern palace at Masada, the third palace at Jericho, the seaside palace at Caesarea, and the Herodium near the desert's edge. Many of his projects often combined multiple purposes, incorporating ceremonial and administrative spaces, storage, water facilities, baths, swimming pools, and fortifications. Emphasis was also placed on integrating water features and greenery, utilizing local materials like kurkar in Caesarea and limestone in desert regions. Concurrently, Herod imported exotic materials, such as volcanic sand from Italy for Caesarea, and employed foreign craftsmen...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 279 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Pascal is an imperative and procedural programming language, designed by Niklaus Wirth as a small, efficient language intended to encourage good programming practices using structured programming and data structuring. It is named after French mathematician, philosopher and physicist Blaise Pascal. Pascal was developed on the pattern of the ALGOL 60 language. Wirth was involved in the process to improve the language as part of the ALGOL  efforts and proposed a version named ALGOL W. This was not accepted, and the ALGOL  process bogged down. In 1968, Wirth decided to abandon the ALGOL  process and further improve ALGOL W, releasing this as Pascal in 1970. On top of ALGOL's scalars and arrays, Pascal enables defining complex data types and building dynamic and recursive data structures such as lists, trees and graphs. Pascal has strong typing on all objects, which means that one type of data cannot be converted to or interpreted as another without explicit conversions. Unlike C and also unlike most other languages in the C family, Pascal allows nested procedure definitions to any depth, and allows most kinds of definitions and declarations inside subroutines procedures and functions...
In computer science, declarative programming is a programming paradigm that expresses the logic of a computation without fully describing its control flow. The paradigm focuses on abstracting a program beyond the order of execution. This implies usage of a high-level programming language. Languages that permit this style allow a developer to minimize or eliminate side effects by describing what the program must accomplish in terms of the problem domain, rather than fully describing how to accomplish it as a sequence of the programming language primitives the how being left up to the language's implementation. Declarative programming is in contrast with imperative programming, which implements algorithms in explicit steps. Just like in the functional programming paradigm, mutating variables does not conform to the declarative paradigm because it implies an execution order which is imperative. Declarative programming may consider programs as theories of a formal logic, and computations as deductions in that logical theory. Declarative programming at times simplifies the writing of parallel programs. Common declarative language paradigms include logic programming e.g., Prolog, Datalog...
E is an object-oriented programming language for secure distributed computing, created by Mark S. Miller, Dan Bornstein, Douglas Crockford, Chip Morningstar and others at Electric Communities in 1997. E is mainly descended from the concurrent language Joule and from Original-E, a set of extensions to Java for secure distributed programming. E combines message-based computation with Java-like syntax. A concurrency model based on event loops and promises ensures that deadlock can never occur.  Philosophy  The E language is designed for computer security and secure computing. This is performed mainly by strict adherence to the object-oriented computing model, which in its pure form, has properties that support secure computing. The E language and its standard library employ a capability-based design philosophy throughout in order to help programmers build secure software and to enable software components to co-operate even if they don't fully trust each other. In E, object references serve as capabilities, hence capabilities add no computational or conceptual overhead costs. The language syntax is designed to be easy for people to audit for security flaws. For example, lexical scoping...
Bubble is a visual programming language developed by Bubble Group designed for building web and mobile applications. It is a no-code development platform that allows users to create web applications through a visual interface without writing code. It offers tools for designing, building, and deploying applications, making it accessible to users without technical expertise.  Overview  Bubble's visual development platform is used to create websites and web applications. It is used by non-technical start-up founders, in schools for educational purposes, and by other organizations for commercial purposes. Bubble is used by absolute beginners to practice making websites, or by more advanced people to make websites. Competitors to Bubble.io in the visual programming and no-code industry include FlutterFlow, Microsoft Power Apps, and Adalo  History  Bubble was founded by Emmanuel Straschnov and Josh Haas in 2012 in New York. Bubble had been bootstrapped for a long time but eventually started receiving investments. In 2019, Bubble raised 6M from SignalFire, Neo, Nas, Eric Ries and the founders of Warby Parker, Allbirds, Okta, and Harry's. In 2021, Bubble raised 100M. Bubble was named...
D, also known as dlang, is a multi-paradigm system programming language created by Walter Bright at Digital Mars and released in 2001. Andrei Alexandrescu joined the design and development effort in 2007. Though it originated as a re-engineering of C, D is now a very different language. As it has developed, it has drawn inspiration from other high-level programming languages. Notably, it has been influenced by Java, Python, Ruby, C, and Eiffel. The D language reference describes it as follows: D is a general-purpose systems programming language with a C-like syntax that compiles to native code. It is statically typed and supports both automatic and manual memory management. D programs are structured as modules that can be compiled separately and linked with external libraries to create native libraries or executables.  Features  D is not source-compatible with C and C source code in general. However, any code that is legal in both CC and D should behave in the same way. Like C, D has closures, anonymous functions, compile-time function execution, design by contract, ranges, built-in container iteration concepts, and type inference. D's declaration...
Logo is an educational programming language, designed in 1967 by Wally Feurzeig, Seymour Papert, and Cynthia Solomon. The name was coined by Feurzeig while he was at Bolt, Beranek and Newman, and derives from the Greek logos, meaning 'word' or 'thought'. A general-purpose language, Logo is widely known for its use of turtle graphics, in which commands for movement and drawing produced line or vector graphics, either on screen or with a small robot termed a turtle. The language was conceived to teach concepts of programming related to Lisp and only later to enable what Papert called body-syntonic reasoning, where students could understand, predict, and reason about the turtle's motion by imagining what they would do if they were the turtle. There are substantial differences among the many dialects of Logo, and the situation is confused by the regular appearance of turtle graphics programs that are named Logo. Logo is a multi-paradigm adaptation and dialect of Lisp, a functional programming language. There is no standard Logo, but UCBLogo has the facilities for handling lists, files, IO, and recursion in scripts, and can be used to teach all computer science concepts, as UC Berkeley...
Forth is a stack-oriented programming language and interactive integrated development environment designed by Charles H. Chuck Moore and first used by other programmers in 1970. Although not an acronym, the language's name in its early years was often spelled in all capital letters as FORTH. The FORTH-79 and FORTH-83 implementations, which were not written by Moore, became de facto standards, and an official technical standard of the language was published in 1994 as ANS Forth. A wide range of Forth derivatives existed before and after ANS Forth. The free and open-source software Gforth implementation is actively maintained, as are several commercially supported systems. Forth typically combines a compiler with an integrated command shell, where the user interacts via subroutines called words. Words can be defined, tested, redefined, and debugged without recompiling or restarting the whole program. All syntactic elements, including variables, operators, and control flow, are defined as words. A stack is used to pass parameters between words, leading to a Reverse Polish notation style. For much of Forth's existence, the standard technique was to compile to threaded code, which can...
Ada is a structured, statically typed, imperative, and object-oriented high-level programming language, inspired by Pascal and other languages. It has built-in language support for design by contract , extremely strong typing, explicit concurrency, tasks, synchronous message passing, protected objects, and non-determinism. Ada improves code safety and maintainability by using the compiler to find errors in favor of runtime errors. Ada is an international technical standard, jointly defined by the International Organization for Standardization , and the International Electrotechnical Commission . As of May 2023, the standard, ISOIEC 8652:2023, is called Ada 2022 informally. Ada was originally designed by a team led by French computer scientist Jean Ichbiah of Honeywell under contract to the United States Department of Defense from 1977 to 1983 to supersede over 450 programming languages then used by the DoD. Ada was named after Ada Lovelace , who has been credited as the first computer programmer.  Features  Ada was originally designed for embedded and real-time systems. The Ada 95 revision, designed by S. Tucker Taft of Intermetrics between 1992...
Nim is a general-purpose, multi-paradigm, statically typed, compiled, high-level system programming language. It was designed and developed by a team led by Andreas Rumpf. Nim aims to be efficient, expressive, and elegant, and supports metaprogramming, functional, message passing, procedural, and object-oriented programming paradigms. Nim includes features such as compile-time code generation, algebraic data types, and a foreign function interface for interfacing with C, C, Objective-C, and JavaScript. It also supports compilation to these same languages as intermediate representations.  Description  Nim is statically typed. It supports compile-time metaprogramming features such as syntactic macros and term rewriting macros. Term rewriting macros enable library implementations of common data structures, such as bignums and matrices, to be implemented efficiently and with syntactic integration, as if they were built-in language facilities. Iterators are supported and can be used as first class entities, as can functions, allowing for the use of functional programming methods. Object-oriented programming is supported by inheritance and multiple dispatch. Functions can be...
Rust is a general-purpose programming language that emphasizes performance, type safety, concurrency, and memory safety. Rust supports multiple programming paradigms. It was influenced by ideas from functional programming, including immutability, higher-order functions, algebraic data types, and pattern matching. It also supports object-oriented programming via structs, enums, traits, and methods. Rust enforces memory safety i.e., that all references point to valid memory without a conventional garbage collector instead, memory safety errors and data races are prevented by the borrow checker, which tracks the object lifetime of references at compile time. Software developer Graydon Hoare created Rust in 2006 while working at Mozilla, which officially sponsored the project in 2009. The first stable release, Rust 1.0, was published in May 2015. The project has been sponsored by the Rust Foundation since February 2021. Rust has been adopted by many software projects, especially web services and system software. It has been studied academically and has a growing community of developers.  History   2006-2009: Early years  In 2006, Rust began as a personal project by Mozilla...
A system programming language is a programming language used for system programming such languages are designed for writing system software, which usually requires different development approaches when compared with application software. Edsger Dijkstra referred to these languages as machine oriented high order languages, or mohol. General-purpose programming languages tend to focus on generic features to allow programs written in the language to use the same code on different computing platforms. Examples of such languages include ALGOL and Pascal. This generic quality typically comes at the cost of denying direct access to the machine's internal workings, and this often has negative effects on performance. System languages, in contrast, are designed not for compatibility, but for performance and ease of access to the underlying computer hardware while still providing high-level programming concepts like structured programming. Examples include Executive Systems Problem Oriented Language and Systems Programming Language , both of which are ALGOL-like in syntax but tuned to their respective platforms. Others are cross-platform software, but designed to work close to the...
Henry W. Van Eck is the chief bankruptcy judge for the United States bankruptcy court, Middle District of Pennsylvania.  Childhood  Judge Van Eck was born in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  Education  Judge Van Eck earned his Bachelor of Science in political science from Susquehanna University in 1995 and is a 1998 cum laude graduate of Widener University Commonwealth Law School.  Legal work experience  After graduating law school he joined the law firm of Cummingham and Chernicoff, P.C. where he began practicing bankruptcy law. Van Eck then cofounded the law firm of Van Eck  Van Eck, P.C. In 2011, he became a shareholder with Mette, Evans  Woodside law firm in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In 2016, Van Eck was recommended for a federal bankruptcy judgeship by Judicial Council for the Third Circuit. He was appointed to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania on April 6, 2017. He became chief judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania in December 2019. His term will expire on April 5, 2031. Judge Van Eck is a member of the American, Pennsylvania, and Dauphin County Bar Associations, the American Bankruptcy Institute...
Kurtolu is a Turkish name. In old times it was a patronymic lakap meaning son of Kurt, from the Turkish first name Kurt. The latter name literally means wolf in Turkish. In modern times the epithet has become a surname. Notable people with this epithet or surname include:  Epithet  Kurtolu Hzr Reis, Ottoman admiral Kurtolu Muslihiddin Reis , Ottoman privateer and admiral  Surname  Aydn Kurtolu , Turkish musician Cengiz Kurtolu , Turkish musician Ermal Kurtolu , Albanian-Turkish basketball player
Between 1957 and 1961, the French army forcibly displaced between two and three million Algerians from their homes during the Algerian War. By late 1960, over 1,150 regroupment camps had been created.They held more than 2.1 million civilians, nearly a quarter of Algeria's population at the time. No official death toll has been confirmed or released by the French government at the time Historian Fabien Sacriste estimates that almost 200,000 Algerians died in these camps, and a third of them were infants less than one year old. The French military described these operations as regroupements, claiming they aimed to separate civilians from National Liberation Front fighters and bring development to rural areas. In practice, the army evacuated entire villages, demolished homes, and relocated families into zones enclosed by barbed wire. In many camps, military oversight replaced civilian structures, and movement was tightly controlled. Consequently, these camps were instruments of military control. In 1959, Michel Rocard, then an inspector of finance, wrote an internal report to Paul Delouvrier, delegate general of the government in Algeria, denouncing the...
Kamen Rider 555 is the 2003 incarnation of the Kamen Rider franchise. It ran for 50 episodes, with the 50th episode marked as FINAL, and was originally broadcast on TV Asahi from January 26, 2003 to January 18, 2004. All 50 episodes were written by Toshiki Inoue. On October 5, 2003 the show used TV Asahi's current logo.  Episodes   See also 
Adriaan Jakobus Ad Kaland Dutch:  13 March 1922 - 11 January 1995 was a Dutch politician. Born in Westkapelle, he was a member of the municipal council of Middelburg between 1953 and 1962, serving as an alderman in his final four years. He joined the Provincial Council of Zeeland in 1958 and the Provincial Executive of Zeeland in 1962. He became a member of the Senate on 20 September 1977, and he left his provincial positions the following year. The Christian Historical Union , of which he was member, merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal in 1980. Kaland became the CDA's parliamentary leader in the Senate, staying on until he left the body on 31 December 1994. He died in Zoutelande in 1978 aged 72.  References   External links  Media related to Ad Kaland at Wikimedia Commons
The music score for Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 film Vertigo was composed by Bernard Herrmann between 3 January and 19 February 1958. The recordings were made in London and Vienna, with the orchestra conducted by Muir Mathieson. A musicians' strike had prevented the score from being recorded in Los Angeles with Herrmann conducting. What follows is a list of the music cues that appear in the film and where they can be found on the various releases of the original soundtrack recordings and significant re-recordings of the score.  Breakdown of music cues  Bernard Herrmann's score for Vertigo consists of 42 cues, which comprise about 74 minutes of music heard in the film. The small bits of source music used in the film, such as the Mozart piece heard on Midge's phonograph or the music Scottie and Judy dance to late in the film, were not composed by Herrmann and are therefore not considered as part of the score. Note that Herrmann spelled the Kim Novak character's name as Madeline, not Madeleine. In the following table, the length of the cues in the actual film are given. The letters afterward represent which CD release the cue can be found on, if applicable. is the original...
Firma y Odilo Estvez Municipal Decorative Art Museum in Spanish, Museo de Arte Decorativo Firma y Odilo Estvez is the former home of the Estvez family in Rosario, Argentina, which was donated to the Municipality of Rosario and turned into a museum. Mrs. Firma Mayor de Estvez bequeathed her mansion and its contents to the city, in memory of her husband Odilo Estvez. The municipal government assumed its ownership in 1966, and inaugurated the museum officially on 8 July 1968. The museum is located in the historical core of Rosario, in front of Plaza 25 de Mayo, at the starting point of the old village, near the town hall and the Cathedral. Administratively, it depends on the Culture and Education Secretariat of the Municipality of Rosario. It showcases a permanent exhibition of artwork that was gathered by the Estvez family during almost 30 years, including Spanish furniture from the 16th, 17th and 18th century and copies of 18th-century French furniture a collection of European paintings a number of sculptures works in ivory, glass, porcelain, jade, and silver  tapestries, carpets, and fans.  References  Museo...
Columbia University was founded in 1754 in New York City as King's College, by royal charter of King George II of Great Britain. It is the oldest institution of higher learning in New York state, and the fifth-oldest in the United States.  Founding of King's College  The period leading up to the school's founding was marked by controversy, with various groups competing to determine its location and religious affiliation. Advocates of New York City met with success on the first point, while the Church of England prevailed on the latter. However, all constituencies agreed to commit themselves to principles of religious liberty in establishing the policies of the College. Although Dutch New Amsterdam and the entire island of Manhattan had officially been ceded to the Kingdom of Great Britain in February 1674 with the Treaty of Westminster, no serious discussions as to the founding of a university in the renamed Province of New York began until the early eighteenth-century. This delay is often attributed to the multitude of languages and religions practiced in the province, which made the founding of a seat of learning difficult because Colleges during the colonial period were regarded...
Brian J. Keefe is an American professional basketball coach who is the head coach for the Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association .  Early life and playing career  Brian Keefe was born in Winchester, Massachusetts. As a high-school shooting guard, he was Winchester High School's all-time leading scorer, averaging 28 points a game, with his record of 1,163 points standing for 24 years before it was broken in 2018. Keefe was inducted in the Winchester Sport Foundation Hall of Fame in 2004. He was a teammate of Kirk Minihane. Keefe began his collegiate playing career at UC Irvine, where he was appointed team captain as a sophomore and named All-Big West Second Team in 1995-96 after leading the team in scoring. After transferring to UNLV for his final two seasons, Keefe helped the Running Rebels win the Western Athletic Conference Tournament and earn an NCAA berth. He was named to the WAC All-Tournament Team after making a tournament-record 13 three-pointers. During his senior season in 1998-99, Keefe was named team captain and helped lead UNLV to an NIT appearance.  Coaching career   Early career  Keefe began his coaching career as...
HFSS or HfSS may refer to: High-frequency structure simulator, a high frequency electromagnetic simulation software, see Ansys HFSS High in fat, sugar and salt, food products that are high in fat, sugar or salt, see junk food Hochschule fr Sozialpdagogik und Sozialkonomie, a predecessor of the City University of Applied Sciences in Bremen, Germany Heart failure survival score, a multivariable predictive index that risk-stratifies patients with chronic heart failure referred for heart transplantation  See also  All pages with titles beginning with HFSS All pages with titles containing HFSS HFS
Milna is a rural locality in Ilkinskoye Rural Settlement, Melenkovsky District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population was 55 as of 2010. There are 2 streets.  Geography  Milna is located 21 km south of Melenki by road. Kudrino is the nearest rural locality.  References 
FOCUS is a fourth-generation programming language computer programming language and development environment that is used to build database queries. Produced by Information Builders Inc., it was originally developed for data handling and analysis on the IBM mainframe. Subsequently versions for minicomputers and such as the VA and other platforms were implemented. FOCUS was later extended to personal computers and to the World Wide Web: the WebFOCUS product.  History  Information Builders's FOCUS product began as an alternate product to Mathematica's RAMIS, the first Fourth-generation programming language . National CSS , a Time-sharing vendor, licensed rights to make RAMIS available on its VPCSS system. At some point Mathematica changed its licensing price. The interested parties were: NCSS, which was marketing RAMIS for use on their time-sharing system Mathematica, owner of RAMIS Key developersprogrammers of RAMIS some stayed with Mathematica others left to form the company that became Information Builders, known for its FOCUS product  Relation to other 4GLs  RAMIS was the direct ancestor of FOCUS. Gerald D. Cohen and Peter...
Gov't Mule is the debut studio album by the American band Gov't Mule. The album was produced and mostly recorded live by Michael Barbiero at Bearsville Sound Studios, with many tracks running into each other. Mule is still a concert favorite, and Rockin' Horse was later recorded by the Allman Brothers Band when Warren Haynes rejoined the group for the album Hittin' the Note.  Critical reception  Rolling Stone wrote that the Mule kick with punishing metal force... Woody and drummer Matt Abts hammer out a bottom-heavy platform from which Haynes can grandstand.  Track listing   Personnel  Warren Haynes - vocals, guitar Matt Abts - drums Allen Woody - bass John Popper - harmonica Hook Herrera - harmonica Michael Barbiero - production  References 
Dijan is a village in Alan Baraghush Rural District of Mehraban District in Sarab County, East Azerbaijan province, Iran.  Demographics   Population  At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 412 in 97 households. The following census in 2011 counted 405 people in 87 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 296 people in 67 households.  See also  Iran portal  Notes   References 
Urea transporter 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SLC14A1 gene.  Function  The SLC14A1 codes for a urea transporter that is expressed in erythrocytes and kidney. SLC14A2 and SLC14A1 constitute solute carrier family 14. UTB proteins constitute the Kidd antigen system.  References   Further reading 
Ethallobarbital brand names Dormin, Dumex, Dormitiv, Dorval, also known as ethallymal and 5-allyl-5-ethylbarbituric acid, is an allyl-substituted barbiturate described as a sedativehypnotic. It was first synthesized in 1927.  See also  Allobarbital  References 
Saints Peter, Andrew, Paul and Denise Latin: Petrus, Andreas, Paulus, DionisiaDionysia are venerated as martyrs by the Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Churches. They were killed in the 3rd century at Lampsacus, Mysia on the Hellespont.  Martyrdom  According to tradition, Denise was martyred during the persecution of Christians by the Emperor Decius, along with three men named Andrew, Paul, and Nichomachus. Nichomachus, presumptuous and over-confident, denied that he was a Christian after he was tortured and was asked to perform a sacrifice to the Roman gods. However, as he was about to perform this task, he suffered a convulsion and fell dead. Andrew and Paul refused to apostatize and were tortured on the rack and then imprisoned. Denise was a sixteen-year-old Christian girl who vocalized her unhappiness regarding Nichomachus' apostasy. She was brought before the proconsul Optimus, and refused to abjure her faith. Optimus condemned her to be raped by several soldiers however, according to tradition, she was subjected to the approaches of three libertines, but was protected by an angel. Paul and Andrew were finally led to their execution, and...
Greenpeace Aotearoa is one of New Zealand's largest environmental organisations, and is a national office of the global environmental organisation Greenpeace.  History  Greenpeace Aotearoa New Zealand was founded in 1974, two years after the original Greenpeace, to protect the natural environment. Greenpeace Aotearoa New Zealand emerged from an amalgam of 1960s and 1970s NZ peace groups and activists, who had for a decade been actively promoting their opposition to the Vietnam War and nuclear testing. In particular, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament who were nationally campaigning against French nuclear testing in French Polynesia since 1961, culminating in an 80,238 signature petition presented to the New Zealand Government in 1962 demanding they take punitive action against the French to enforce a nuclear test ban in the Pacific. Two key NZ CND leaders in the 1970s involved with Greenpeace pursued political careers Richard Northey ONZM as a NZ MP and Mike Rann CNZM as Premier of South Australia and Minister for Climate Change and Sustainability. Other groups in the peace collective included the NZ Peace Media, NZ Friends of the Earth, the Auckland Peace Squadron and...
The Movement for Multi-party Democracy renamed the New Nation Party in November 2025 is a political party in Zambia. Originally formed to oust the previous government, MMD controlled an absolute majority in parliament between 1991 and 2001, when its past leader, Frederick Chiluba was President of Zambia. Its election into power in 1991 ended the 27-year rule of President Kenneth Kaunda and his United National Independence Party . It remained the dominant party within Zambian politics until the general elections of September 2011.  History   Formation and government  Growing opposition to UNIP's monopoly on power, due in part to economic problems and corruption, led to the formation of the MMD in July 1990, led by Frederick Chiluba, the head of the country's trade unions. During that same year, pushed by internal and international pressure, Kaunda agreed to a referendum on the one-party state, but in the face of continued opposition, dropped the referendum and signed a constitutional amendment that relinquished UNIP's guaranteed right to rule. Multi-party general elections were held on 31 October 1991, and saw the MMD sweep to power in a massive landslide. Chiluba...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 290 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A GIS software program is a computer program to support the use of a geographic information system, providing the ability to create, store, manage, query, analyze, and visualize geographic data, that is, data representing phenomena for which location is important. The GIS software industry encompasses a broad range of commercial and open-source products that provide some or all of these capabilities within various information technology architectures.  History  The earliest geographic information systems, such as the Canadian Geographic Information System started in 1963, were bespoke programs developed specifically for a single installation , based on custom-designed data models. During the 1950s and 1960s, academic researchers during the quantitative revolution of geography began writing computer programs to perform spatial analysis, especially at the University of Washington and the University of Michigan, but these were also custom programs that were rarely available to other potential users. Perhaps the first general-purpose software that provided a range of GIS functionality was the Synagraphic Mapping Package , developed by Howard T....
This is a list of notable applications that run on the Android platform which meet guidelines for free software and open-source software.  Advertisement blocking   Web browsers   Office Suites and synchronisation   Communication   Privacy or security focused   Emulators   Games   General   Health   Multimedia   Navigation   Reading   Science and education   Security   System and utilities   See also  List of free and open-source software packages List of free and open-source iOS applications List of open-source mobile phones List of custom Android distributions List of open-source hardware projects Free Software Directory  References and notes   External links  There are a number of third-party maintained lists of open-source Android applications, including: Android Open Source resources and software database F-Droid Repository of free and open-source Android software PRISM Break - curated list of security focused open-source alternatives to mitigate some threats of PRISM, Keyscore and Tempora. Droid-Break - curated list of general purpose open-source alternatives. Inspired by PRISM-break. Free Software...
Alternative terms for free software, such as OSS, FOSS, and FLOSS, have been a recurring issue among free and open-source software users from the late 1990s onwards. These terms share almost identical licence criteria and development practices. In 1983 Richard Stallman launched the free software movement and founded the Free Software Foundation to promote the movement and to publish its own definition. Others have published alternative definitions of free software, notably the Debian Free Software Guidelines. In 1998, Bruce Perens and Eric S. Raymond began a campaign to market open-source software and founded the Open Source Initiative, which espoused different goals and a different philosophy from Stallman's.  Terms   Free software  In the 1950s to the 1990s software culture, the free software concept combined the nowadays differentiated software classes of public domain software, Freeware, Shareware and FOSS and was created in academia and by hobbyists and hackers. When the term free software was adopted by Richard Stallman in 1983, it was still ambiguously used to describe several kinds of software. In February 1986 Richard Stallman formally defined free software with...
A free-software license is a notice that grants the recipient of a piece of software extensive rights to modify and redistribute that software. These actions are usually prohibited by copyright law, but the rights-holder of a piece of software can remove these restrictions by accompanying the software with a software license which grants the recipient these rights. Software using such a license is free software as conferred by the copyright holder. Free-software licenses are applied to software in source code and also binary object-code form, as the copyright law recognizes both forms.  Comparison  Free-software licenses provide risk mitigation against different legal threats or behaviors that are seen as potentially harmful by developers:  History   Pre-1980s  In the early times of software, sharing of software and source code was common in certain communities, for instance academic institutions. Before the US Commission on New Technological Uses of Copyrighted Works decided in 1974 that computer programs, to the extent that they embody an author's original creation, are proper subject matter of copyright...
A source-code-hosting facility is a file archive and web hosting facility for source code of software, documentation, web pages, and other works, accessible either publicly or privately. They are often used by open-source software projects and other multi-developer projects to maintain revision and version history, or version control. Many repositories provide a bug tracking system, and offer release management, mailing lists, and wiki-based project documentation. Software authors generally retain their copyright when software is posted to a code hosting facilities.  General information   Features   Version control systems   Popularity  Discontinued: CodePlex, Gna!, Google Code.  Specialized hosting facilities  The following are open-source software hosting facilities that only serve a specific narrowly focused community or technology.  Former hosting facilities  Alioth - In 2018, Alioth has been replaced by a GitLab based solution hosted on salsa.debian.org. Alioth has been finally switched off in June 2018. BerliOS - abandoned in April 2014 Betavine - abandoned somewhere in 2015. CodeHaus - shut down in May 2015 CodePlex...
Free software or libre software sometimes known as freedom-respecting software is computer software distributed under free software licenses that allow users to run the software for any purpose as well as to study, change, and distribute it and any adapted versions. Free software is a matter of liberty, not price all users are legally free to do what they want with their copies of free software regardless of how much is paid to obtain the program. Computer programs are deemed free if they give end-users ultimate control over the software and, subsequently, over their devices. The right to study and modify a computer program entails that the source code-the preferred format for making changes-be made available to users of that program. While this is often called access to source code or public availability, the Free Software Foundation recommends against thinking in those terms, because it might give the impression that users have an obligation to give non-users a copy of the program. Although the term free software had already been used loosely in the past and other permissive software like...
This is a list of computer software which is made for bioinformatics and released under open-source software licenses with articles in Wikipedia.  See also  Comparison of software for molecular mechanics modeling Earth BioGenome Project List of sequence alignment software List of open-source healthcare software List of biomedical cybernetics software List of freeware health software List of genetic engineering software List of molecular graphics systems List of systems biology modelling software List of proprietary bioinformatics software  References   External links  Free Biology Software - Free Software Directory - Free Software Foundation
OpenDesk is a free and open-source suite of productivity software developed by the German Center for Digital Sovereignty in Public Administration . Designed for the public sector as an alternative to Microsoft's Office and 365 products, OpenDesk is part of Germany's digital sovereignty project, which aims to reduce the country's reliance on software services from United States technology companies. The software suite is a web application that integrates a word processor, spreadsheet editor and presentation program  cloud storage service  email server, digital calendar and contact manager  instant messenger  videotelephony service  project management tool  and wiki . OpenDesk is provided in community and enterprise editions, with the latter in both self-hosted and software-as-a-service configurations.  History  OpenDesk was initially created as a fork of Dataport Phoenix , an abandoned office suite project funded by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. ZenDiS started collaborating with the French Interministerial Digital Directorate in February...
The following are notable organizations devoted to the advocacy, legal aid, financial aid, technical aid, governance, etc. of free and open-source software as a whole, or of one or more specific FOSS projects. For projects that have their own foundation or are part of an umbrella organization, the primary goal is often to provide a mechanism to fund development of the software. Most of these groups are structured as nonprofit-charity organizations. This list includes no businesses that aim to make money from free and open-source software.  Location-specific   Arab world  Ma3bar - a United Nations-affiliated organization, promotes open source software within the Arab world.  Asia  Free Software Movement of India - founded 2010 a coalition of organizations that advocate use of free software within India. Regional movements Democratic Alliance of Knowledge Front, Kerala Free Software Movement of DelhiNCR Free Software Movement of Karnataka Free Software Movement of Maharashtra Free Software Movement of Rajasthan Free Software Foundation Tamilnadu Free Software Movement of West Bengal Swadhin, Odisha Swecha, Telangana  Andhra Pradesh Sectoral...
Open-source robotics is a branch of robotics where robots are developed with open-source hardware and free and open-source software, publicly sharing blueprints, schematics, and source code. It is thus closely related to the open design movement, the maker movement and open science.  Requirements  Open source robotics means that information about the hardware is easily discerned, so that others can easily rebuild it. In turn, this requires design to use only easily available standard subcomponents and tools, and for the build process to be documented in detail including a bill of materials and detailed step-by-step building and testing instructions. A CAD file alone is not sufficient, as it does not show the steps for performing or testing the build. These requirements are standard to open source hardware in general, and are formalised by various licences, certifications, especially those defined by the peer-reviewed journals Journal of Open Hardware and Hardware. Licensing requirements for software are the same as for any open source software. But in addition, for software components to be of practical use in real robot systems, they need to be compatible...
Researchers and journalists have found a higher gender disparity and lower racial and ethnic diversity in the open-source-software movement than in the field of computing overall, though a higher proportion of sexual minorities and transgender people than in the general United States population. Despite growing an increasingly diverse user base since its emergence in the 1990s, the field of open-source software development has remained homogeneous, with young men constituting the vast majority of developers.  Background  Open source software is a model of software development where source code is created by a number of volunteers and can be modified by other members of the community. The number of developers working on an open-source project can range from few to thousands, but in many projects only developers deemed trustworthy by the project maintainers will have the privilege of making additions to the main repository. The software developed as open-source is usually freely available to use, with the number of users varying from few to many millions. Since its inception in the 1990s, as open-source software has continued to grow and offer new solutions to everyday problems, an...
Columbine II is a Lockheed VC-121A-LO Constellation Air Force Serial Number 48-8610, Lockheed Model 749-79-36 the aircraft that was to become the first plane to use the Air Force One callsign and the only presidential aircraft ever sold to a private party. The aircraft was ferried from long-term storage in the Sonoran Desert at Marana Regional Airport, Arizona, to the east coast for restoration in March 2016. The aircraft was ordered and named by U.S. President Eisenhower. It was named Columbine II because he had earlier flown on a Constellation named Columbine when he was a general in the U.S. Army. It became the first aircraft to use the call sign Air Force One when the President was aboard after a near miss due to confusion with callsigns. It was decided that any Air Force aircraft with the president on board would use the call sign Air Force One.  Presidential aircraft  Columbine II was built as a C-121A, a military version of the aircraft, at Burbank, California. It bailed to Lockheed to support the Lockheed Air Service International maintenance facility at Keflavk, Iceland. In November 1952, President-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower used the aircraft to travel to South...
Spenser is a fictional private investigator created by the American mystery writer Robert B. Parker. He acts as the protagonist of a series of detective novels written by Parker and later continued by Ace Atkins and Mike Lupica. His first appearance was in the 1973 novel The Godwulf Manuscript. He is also featured in the 1980s television series Spenser: For Hire and a related series of TV movies based on the novels. In March 2020, he was featured in the Netflix thriller film Spenser Confidential. Spenser is only referred to by his surname in the novels and the television series. Spenser is addressed as Jim at the end of Chapter 9 of The Godwulf Manuscript though this was probably a casual address by a stranger, akin to Mac or Buddy.  Fictional biography  Spenser was born and grew up in Laramie, Wyoming and is a Boston private eye in the mold of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe, a smart-mouthed tough guy with a heart of gold. Unlike Marlowe, Spenser maintains a committed relationship with one woman . He is an ex-boxer who likes to remind readers that he once fought the former heavyweight champ Jersey Joe Walcott, and he lifts weights to...
In the Sinosphere, a death in vain is a death that is not a death of natural causes, such as a suicide, homicide, or an accident, which is an unjust death. For example, in Journey to the West: Those people are the ghosts of the 64 places of smoke, the 72 places of grass, the princes and the chiefs, all of whom died in vain, and have no money and no control, and cannot be reborn, and are all lonely and hungry. In the Travels of Lao Can: I can go, but it is not useful to the business, but to add one more wrongful death in the cage. Chinese people often set up temples for people who died in accidents, called Yin miao, hoping that after these people died in vain, they would be placated with jisi and not disturb the human world.  See also  Gory Yin miao Chinese hero cult Heroic Martyrs Shrine Wrongful death claim  References 
Mario Radaelli was an Italian hurdler who was 7th in the 400 m hs at the 1934 European Athletics Championships, one-time national champion at senior level , also in 4x400 m.  Achievements   See also  Italy at the 1934 European Athletics Championships  References 
Finally We Are No One is the second studio album by Icelandic band Mm. It was released on 20 May 2002 by FatCat Records. In Iceland, the Smekkleysa label released Loksins erum vi engin, a limited edition of Finally We Are No One featuring alternate versions of the album's songs recorded in the Icelandic language.  Production  Mm worked on Finally We Are No One in Galtarviti, a lighthouse in the Westfjords. Inside the lighthouse, the band composed songs for the album, which they subsequently recorded in a studio. Explaining why they decided to work in Galtarviti, Mm member Gunnar rn Tynes said: We went there and we really liked the place... We were connected to it. You get a different sense of time being there... It's far away from everything. There's no electricity except for a power generator, and there's no phone connection, there's no TV, there's no radio, and you have to work for everything you want to get.  Critical reception  Hot Press critic James Kelleher described Finally We Are No One as a luscious 56-minute lullaby for troubled heads, sung quietly and played with delicate precision. Q found the album utterly unique and highlighted Mm's curious combination...
Inter Kashi FC is an Indian association football club based in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. Founded in 2023, it is one of the newest and stood itself as the fastest-growing football club in India. The club competes in Indian Super League, the top tier of Indian football league system  List   References 
Treasure is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: Cyril Treasure , English footballer Darren Treasure, American sport consultant David Treasure, Welsh rugby league player David Treasure , Australian politician Frank Treasure , Australian rules footballer Rachael Treasure , Australian journalist and writer Sisely Treasure, American singer and dancer Ferdinand Treasure, born 1939 Jamaican businessman
Dorthia M. Dottie Downs was an All-American Girls Professional Baseball League player. Downs was born in South Bend, Indiana, to Ershel and Hilda Downs. Downs joined her home club South Bend Blue Sox in its 1945 season. She appeared in three games and went hitless in five at bats. Additional information is incomplete because there are no records available at the time of the request. Downs died at age 50, unmarried. In 1988, 20 years after her death, she was honored with a permanent display at the Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum at Cooperstown, New York. The display honors those who were part of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League. Dorthia Downs, along with the rest of the girls and the league staff, is included at the displayexhibit.  Sources 
Hawthorn is a suburb of Adelaide, South Australia, in the City of Mitcham. It is bounded to the north by Cross Road, to the south by Grange Road, to the west by Sussex Terrace and to the east by Belair Road. To the west is Westbourne Park, and to the east is Kingswood. Brown Hill Creek runs through the suburb. Several parks are situated here, including the Mitcham Memorial Gardens and Price Memorial Oval, home of the Mitcham Hawks Football Club. The closest primary school to the suburb is Mitcham Primary School and the nearest high schools are Unley High School and Mitcham Girls High School. Private schools such as Scotch College and Mercedes College are also close by. The Belair line runs through the western side of the suburb. While Hawthorn formerly had its own stop on the line until 1995, the Unley Park railway station sits on the border of Hawthorn and Westbourne Park. St Columba's Anglican Church, designed in Gothic style by noted local architect Alfred Wells and built in 1898, is at 101 Cross Road. Initially overseen by the parish of St Michael's in Mitcham, Hawthorn became a parish in its own right in 1921.  References 
The Cobhamite faction were an 18th-century British political faction built around Richard Temple, 1st Viscount Cobham and his supporters. Among its members, the group included the future Prime Ministers William Pitt and George Grenville. They had a general Whig philosophy and were at first supporters of Prime Minister Sir Robert Walpole but later became opponents of his administration.  Background  The group emerged during the breakdown of the two-party system in Britain when the dominant Whig party had split into several factions - many of whom were in opposition to their fellow Whigs who were in government. Lord Cobham had originally been a supporter of Sir Robert Walpole when he became Prime Minister in 1721, voting with the government in the House of Lords.  Emergence  In 1730s he had begun to grow gradually disenchanted with Walpole, coming to a head when he opposed a proposed Excise Bill in 1733 forcing Walpole to withdraw the Bill. Walpole punished him by removing Cobham's command of his regiment. This prompted Cobham to break entirely from his support of Walpole, and he now crossed to join the Opposition. He began to gather a group of...
Jean-Pierre Vincent was a French theatrical actor and director. He served as Administrator of the Comdie-Franaise from 1983 to 1986.  Theatre  The Broken Jug Scnes populaires A Respectable Wedding Tambours et trompettes Les Acteurs de bonne foi Le Marquis de Montefosco La Cagnotte Capitaine Schelle, Capitaine Eo Le Camp du drap d'or La Vie sclrate du noble seigneur Gilles de Rais In the Jungle of Cities Woyzeck A Respectable Wedding En r'venant de l'expo The Mother Germinal, projet sur un roman La Bonne Vie Don Giovanni The Misanthrope Une livre  vue et Palais de la gurison La Mort d'Andrea Del Sarto, peintre florentin Vichy-Fictions et Violences  Vichy Convoi et Ruines Love's Labour's Lost Don Giovanni Palais de Justice Les Corbeaux Dernires Nouvelles de la peste Flicit The Suicide The Misanthrope Macbeth Six Characters in Search of an Author The Marriage of Figaro On ne badine pas avec l'amour 1988...
Dmitry Vladimirovich Bavilsky Russian:    19 January 1969 - 17 February 2026 was a Russian writer, literary critic, and journalist. Some of the novels he wrote, included The Library of Babel, The Nightshade Family, The Potato Eaters, Gagarin's Last Love, and The Red Dot.  Early life  Bavilsky was born in Chelyabinsk on 19 January 1969. Both his father Vladimir Favelyevich and mother Nina Vasilyevna were doctors. He graduated from Chelyabinsk State University in 1993. He continued post-graduate studies in foreign literature under Mark Iosifovich Bent at the same university, which he completed in 1996.  Career  Bavilsky was working as a deputy editor-in-chief of the magazine Uralskaya Nov from 1995 to 1999. He also worked as a supervisor at the Chelyabinsk Academic Theatre of Drama, and headed Vzglyad publications. His articles appeared in Literaturnaya Gazeta and Nezavisimaya Gazeta as well as in magazines including Znamya, Oktyabr, and Ural. He was a private correspondent and editor for the Russian edition of The Art Newspaper from 2014 to 2017, and for Topos from 2001 to 2012.  Death  Bavilsky died at a hospital on 17 February 2026, at the...
China National Highway 111 runs from Beijing to Mohe of Heilongjiang province. It leaves Beijing heading north-east. In November 2019, an expansion to the northernmost town in China, Mohe , was completed.  Route and distance   See also  China National Highways  References   Notes 
Ardeshiri-ye Sofla Persian:  , also Romanized as Ardeshr-ye Sofl also known as Ardeshr-ye oseynbd and Ardeshr-ye P'n is a village in Sornabad Rural District, Hamaijan District, Sepidan County, Fars province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 141, in 35 families.  References 
Charles H. Gray was an American television and film actor. Gray was best known for his work in the TV series Highway Patrol as Officer Edwards, trail scout Clay Forrester in Rawhide and as William Bill Foster, Sr. in the soap opera The Young and the Restless. Beginning in mostly small uncredited roles in films by the middle 1950s, Gray acted primarily in Western TV series: The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp, Gunsmoke, Black Saddle, The Texan, Yancy Derringer, Dick Powell's Zane Grey Theatre, Have Gun - Will Travel, Riverboat, Death Valley Days, Gunslinger, Laredo, The Road West, The Iron Horse, The High Chaparral, The Virginian, The Men From Shiloh , Bearcats!, Bonanza and Alias Smith and Jones. He also appeared in many TV movies.  Filmography   Television   References   External links  Charles H. Gray at IMDb Obit of Charles H. Gray including photo
Parliamentary elections were held in Slovenia on 24 April 2022 to elect all 90 members of the National Assembly. The ruling Slovenian Democratic Party , led by prime minister Janez Jana, conceded and was defeated by Robert Golob and his Freedom Movement . New Slovenia placed third, and was followed by the Social Democrats and The Left , both of which suffered some losses. The Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Party of Alenka Bratuek, Slovenian National Party and the List of Marjan arec fell below the 4 electoral threshold and won no seats. Turnout stood at 70, a substantial increase compared to previous two elections . Internationally, the election has been described as a defeat for Jana and right-wing populism, Jana being a supporter of former US president Donald Trump and an ally of Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbn. Following the election, the Freedom Movement formed a three-party centre-left coalition government with the Social Democrats and The Left, with Robert Golob heading the 15th Government as the next prime minister.  Electoral system  The 90 members of the National Assembly are elected...
Colossus was a set of computers developed by British codebreakers in the years 1943-1945 to help in the cryptanalysis of the Lorenz cipher. Colossus used thermionic valves to perform Boolean and counting operations. Colossus is regarded as the world's first programmable, electronic, digital computer. The first electromechanical computer was Konrad Zuse's Z3, completed in Berlin in 1941. Colossus was designed by General Post Office research telephone engineer Tommy Flowers, based on plans developed by mathematician Max Newman at the Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park. Alan Turing's use of probability in cryptanalysis contributed to its design. It is sometimes erroneously said that Colossus was designed by Turing, not Flowers, to aid the cryptanalysis of the Enigma but an earlier machine that Turing designed was the electromechanical Bombe. The prototype, Colossus Mark 1, was working by December 1943 and was in use at Bletchley Park by early 1944. An improved Colossus Mark 2 which used shift registers to run five times faster first ran successfully on 1 June 1944, just in time for the Normandy landings on D-Day. Ten Colossus machines...
The Z3 was a German electromechanical computer designed by Konrad Zuse in 1938, and completed in 1941. It was the world's first working programmable, fully automatic digital computer. The Z3 was built with 2,600 relays, implementing a 22-bit word length that operated at a clock frequency of about 5-10 Hz. Program code was stored on punched film. Initial values were entered manually. The Z3 was completed in Berlin in 1941. It was not considered vital, so it was never put into everyday operation. Based on the work of the German aerodynamics engineer Hans Georg Kssner , a Program to Compute a Complex Matrix was written and used to solve wing flutter problems. Zuse asked the German government for funding to replace the relays with fully electronic switches, but funding was denied during World War II since such development was deemed not war-important. The original Z3 was destroyed on 21 December 1943 during an Allied bombardment of Berlin. That Z3 was originally called V3 but was renamed so that it would not be confused with Germany's V-weapons. A fully functioning replica was built in 1961 by Zuse's company,...
Computer chess includes both hardware and software capable of playing chess. Computer chess provides opportunities for players to practice even in the absence of human opponents, and also provides opportunities for analysis, entertainment and training. Computer chess applications that play at the level of a chess grandmaster or higher are available on hardware from supercomputers to smart phones. Standalone chess-playing machines are also available. Stockfish, Leela Chess Zero, GNU Chess, Fruit, and other free open source applications are available for various platforms. Computer chess applications, whether implemented in hardware or software, use different strategies than humans to choose their moves: they use heuristic methods to build, search and evaluate trees representing sequences of moves from the current position and attempt to execute the best such sequence during play. Such trees are typically quite large, thousands to millions of nodes. The computational speed of modern computers, capable of processing tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of nodes or more per second, along with extension and reduction heuristics that narrow the tree to mostly relevant...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 301 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A Hopfield network is a form of recurrent neural network, or a spin glass system, that can serve as a content-addressable memory. The Hopfield network, named for John Hopfield, consists of a single layer of neurons, where each neuron is connected to every other neuron except itself. These connections are bidirectional and symmetric, meaning the weight of the connection from neuron i to neuron j is the same as the weight from neuron j to neuron i. Patterns are associatively recalled by fixing certain inputs, and dynamically evolve the network to minimize an energy function, towards local energy minimum states that correspond to stored patterns. Patterns are associatively learned by a Hebbian learning algorithm. One of the key features of Hopfield networks is their ability to recover complete patterns from partial or noisy inputs, making them robust in the face of incomplete or corrupted data. Their connection to statistical mechanics, recurrent networks, and human cognitive psychology has led to their application in various fields, including physics, psychology, neuroscience, and machine learning theory and practice. Due to their binary-valued neurons...
Neural network software is used to simulate, research, develop, and apply artificial neural networks, software concepts adapted from biological neural networks, and in some cases, a wider array of adaptive systems such as artificial intelligence and machine learning.  Simulators  Neural network simulators are software applications that are used to simulate the behavior of artificial or biological neural networks. They focus on one or a limited number of specific types of neural networks. They are typically stand-alone and not intended to produce general neural networks that can be integrated in other software. Simulators usually have some form of built-in visualization to monitor the training process. Some simulators also visualize the physical structure of the neural network.  Research simulators  Historically, the most common type of neural network software was intended for researching neural network structures and algorithms. The primary purpose of this type of software is, through simulation, to gain a better understanding of the behavior and the properties of neural networks. Today in the study of artificial neural networks, simulators have largely been replaced by more...
A language model is a computational model that predicts sequences in natural language. Language models are useful for a variety of tasks, including speech recognition, machine translation, natural language generation , optical character recognition, route optimization, handwriting recognition, grammar induction, information retrieval and disaster response. Large language models , currently their most advanced form as of 2026, are predominantly based on transformers trained on larger datasets frequently using texts scraped from the public internet. They have superseded recurrent neural network-based models, which had previously superseded the purely statistical models, such as the word n-gram language model.  History  During the 1950s, Noam Chomsky developed influential formal approaches to describing language, including models based on formal grammar. In the 1970s, Frederick Jelinek and colleagues at IBM Research developed statistical approaches to language modeling as part of their work on speech recognition. The group used probabilistic n-gram models of word sequences and introduced perplexity as an information-theoretic measure of the...
Meta-learning is a subfield of machine learning where automatic learning algorithms are applied to metadata about machine learning experiments. As of 2017, the term had not found a standard interpretation, however the main goal is to use such metadata to understand how automatic learning can become flexible in solving learning problems, hence to improve the performance of existing learning algorithms or to learn the learning algorithm itself, hence the alternative term learning to learn. Flexibility is important because each learning algorithm is based on a set of assumptions about the data, its inductive bias. This means that it will only learn well if the bias matches the learning problem. A learning algorithm may perform very well in one domain, but not on the next. This poses strong restrictions on the use of machine learning or data mining techniques, since the relationship between the learning problem and the effectiveness of different learning algorithms is not yet understood. By using different kinds of metadata, like properties of the learning problem, algorithm properties , or patterns previously derived from...
Mixture of experts is a machine learning technique where multiple expert networks are used to divide a problem space into homogeneous regions. MoE represents a form of ensemble learning. They were also called committee machines.  Basic theory  MoE always has the following components, but they are implemented and combined differently according to the problem being solved: Experts f 1 , . . . , f n displaystyle f1,...,fn , each taking the same input x displaystyle x , and producing outputs f 1 , . . . , f n displaystyle f1,...,fn . A weighting function w displaystyle w...
A neural circuit is a population of neurons interconnected by synapses to carry out a specific function when activated. Multiple neural circuits interconnect with one another to form large scale brain networks. Neural circuits have inspired the design of artificial neural networks, though there are significant differences. Circuits in artificial neural networks have been researched as cognates to neural circuits.  Early study  Early treatments of neural networks can be found in Herbert Spencer's Principles of Psychology, 3rd edition , Theodor Meynert's Psychiatry , William James' Principles of Psychology , and Sigmund Freud's Project for a Scientific Psychology . The first rule of neuronal learning was described by Hebb in 1949, in the Hebbian theory. Thus, Hebbian pairing of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic activity can substantially alter the dynamic characteristics of the synaptic connection and therefore either facilitate or inhibit signal transmission. In 1959, the neuroscientists, Warren Sturgis McCulloch and Walter Pitts published the first works on the processing of neural networks. They showed theoretically that networks of artificial neurons...
Unsupervised learning is a framework in machine learning where, in contrast to supervised learning, algorithms learn patterns exclusively from unlabeled data. Other frameworks in the spectrum of supervisions include weak- or semi-supervision, where a small portion of the data is tagged, and self-supervision. Some researchers consider self-supervised learning a form of unsupervised learning. Conceptually, unsupervised learning divides into the aspects of data, training, algorithm, and downstream applications. Typically, the dataset is harvested cheaply in the wild, such as massive text corpus obtained by web crawling, with only minor filtering . This compares favorably to supervised learning, where the dataset is typically constructed manually, which is much more expensive. There are algorithms designed specifically for unsupervised learning, such as clustering algorithms like k-means, dimensionality reduction techniques like principal component analysis , Boltzmann machine learning, and autoencoders. After the rise of deep learning, most large-scale unsupervised learning has been done by training general-purpose neural network...
Neural Network Quantum States is a general class of variational quantum states parameterized in terms of an artificial neural network. It was first introduced in 2017 by the physicists Giuseppe Carleo and Matthias Troyer to approximate wave functions of many-body quantum systems. Given a many-body quantum state    displaystyle Psi rangle  comprising N displaystyle N degrees of freedom and a choice of associated quantum numbers s 1  s N displaystyle s1ldots sN , then an NQS parameterizes the wave-function amplitudes  s 1  s N    W   F  s 1 ...
Geoffrey Everest Hinton is a British-Canadian computer scientist, cognitive scientist, cognitive psychologist and Nobel Prize laureate known for his work on artificial neural networks, which earned him the title the Godfather of AI. He is University Professor Emeritus at the University of Toronto. From 2013 to 2023, he divided his time working for Google Brain and the University of Toronto before publicly announcing his departure from Google in May 2023, citing concerns about the many risks of artificial intelligence technology. In 2017, he co-founded and became the chief scientific advisor of the Vector Institute in Toronto. With David Rumelhart and Ronald J. Williams, Hinton co-authored a highly cited paper published in 1986 that popularised the backpropagation algorithm for training multi-layer neural networks, although they were not the first to propose the approach. Hinton is viewed as a leading figure in the deep learning community. The image-recognition neural network AlexNet, designed in collaboration with his students Alex Krizhevsky and Ilya Sutskever, won the ImageNet challenge in 2012 and was a breakthrough in computer vision. Hinton received...
Machine learning is a field of study in artificial intelligence concerned with the development and study of statistical algorithms that can learn from data and generalize to unseen data, and thus perform tasks without being explicitly programmed. Statistics and mathematical optimisation methods compose the foundations of machine learning. Data mining is a related field of study, focusing on exploratory data analysis through unsupervised learning. From a theoretical viewpoint, probably approximately correct learning provides a mathematical and statistical framework for describing machine learning. Most traditional machine learning and deep learning algorithms can be described as empirical risk minimisation under this framework. Advances in the field of deep learning have allowed neural networks, a class of statistical algorithms, to surpass many previous machine learning approaches in performance. The resulting dominance of machine learning within the field of AI from the late 2000s and early 2010s onwards was such that the terms machine learning and artificial intelligence are now often used interchangeably, even though they are not synonymous.  History  The term...
In the field of artificial intelligence, the designation neuro-fuzzy refers to combinations of artificial neural networks and fuzzy logic.  Overview  Neuro-fuzzy hybridization results in a hybrid intelligent system that combines the human-like reasoning style of fuzzy systems with the learning and connectionist structure of neural networks. Neuro-fuzzy hybridization is widely termed as fuzzy neural network or neuro-fuzzy system in the literature. Neuro-fuzzy system incorporates the human-like reasoning style of fuzzy systems through the use of fuzzy sets and a linguistic model consisting of a set of IF-THEN fuzzy rules. The main strength of neuro-fuzzy systems is that they are universal approximators with the ability to solicit interpretable IF-THEN rules. The strength of neuro-fuzzy systems involves two contradictory requirements in fuzzy modeling: interpretability versus accuracy. In practice, one of the two properties prevails. The neuro-fuzzy in fuzzy modeling research field is divided into two areas: linguistic fuzzy modeling that is focused on interpretability, mainly the Mamdani model and precise fuzzy modeling that...
Ghosts 'n Goblins, known in Japan as Makaimura Japanese:  lit. Demon World Village, is a series of run-and-gun platform video games developed and owned by Capcom. The first entry in the series was Ghosts 'n Goblins, released in arcades on July 7, 1985. The series has subsequently been ported to and released on a variety of personal computers, game consoles and mobile platforms and spawned several sequels and spin-offs. The main series focuses on the knight Arthur's quest to save princess Prin-Prin from the demon king Astaroth. The primary spin-offs include the Gargoyle's Quest and Maximo game series. The series as a whole has sold over 4.7 million units as of December 31, 2025 and stands as the 13th best-selling Capcom game franchise. It has gained a reputation among players for its high level of difficulty. The most recent game in the series, Ghosts 'n Goblins Resurrection, was released on February 25, 2021.  List of games   Main series  The main series consists of run and gun platformers with players controlling a knight named Arthur who must battle through hordes of the undead in order to rescue the kidnapped princess Prin-Prin also known as Guinevere, or not named...
Daphnellopsis fimbriata is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Muricidae.  Description  D. fimbriata is a small sea snail in the Muricidae family. Its shell typically measures about 15 mm in length. The shell is slender and lance-shaped and it features a crimped appearance with lots of folds and ridges. The spire is high and pointed. It has about 1.5 to 1.75 smooth initial whorls, followed by up to six narrow, slightly convex whorls. The suture, or junction between whorls, is sometimes obscured. The shell's color ranges from white to light tan. It may have brown blotches or a brownish-orange band near the suture and on the siphonal canal. The shell opening is similarly light-colored inside. This marine species can be found in the Philippines, New Guinea, and the Loyalty Islands. It is generally can be found at depths of 160 to 222 m . As mentioned earlier, D. fimbriata is part of the Muricidae family and they are known for their decorated and spiny shells. The specific ecological role and behavior of this species are not well-known, but like other muricids, it probably is a carnivorous predator that feeds on other marine invertebrates...
Tokyo attacks may refer to the following: Kant Massacre Bombing of Tokyo Doolittle Raid Bombing of Tokyo Assassination of Inejir Asanuma Shimanaka incident 1974 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries bombing 1985 Narita International Airport bombing Tokyo subway sarin attack Myojo 56 building fire 2008 Akihabara massacre 2019 Tokyo car attack August 2021 Tokyo stabbings October 2021 Tokyo attack  See also  List of massacres in Japan
Major General Winfield Wayne Scott III was Commander, Tanker Airlift Control Center, Scott Air Force Base, Illinois. The TACC is responsible for planning, scheduling and directing a fleet of more than 1,200 aircraft in support of combat delivery and strategic airlift, air refueling and aeromedical operations around the world. The general graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1974 with a Bachelor of Science degree in military science, and earned a master of arts degree in 1983. He has commanded the 374th Operations Group at Yokota Air Base, Japan, the 47th Flying Training Wing at Laughlin AFB, Texas, and the 43rd Airlift Wing, Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. The general also commanded the 64th Air Expeditionary Wing in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. In addition, he served as the Inspector General for U.S. Transportation Command and Headquarters Air Mobility Command, which are located at Scott AFB, Illinois. Prior to his final assignment, he was Deputy Director of Programs, Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs. Born in Ohio, he is the son of Lieutenant General Winfield W. Scott Jr.  Education  1974 Bachelor of Science...
Crataegus  grignonensis sometimes spelled grignoniensis, is a hybrid hawthorn commonly known as Grignon hawthorn. The hybrid originated as a seedling of Crataegus mexicana. It is an excellent small ornamental tree up to about 5 meters in height, with deep red fruit that contain 1 or 2 pyrenes.  Ancestry  An atypical seedling from C. mexicana which is often referred to by the illegitimate name Crataegus pubescens Steud. appeared in 1873 among plants being cultivated at the Arboretum de Grignon, France. The male parent was thought at the time to be C. crus-galli, but that parentage produced C. x lavalleei, which looks quite different. It is thought to be more likely that the pollen parent was C. monogyna.  Taxonomy  The Latin binomial Crataegus  grignonensis was published in 1890 on the basis of a description written by Pierre Mouillefert, who was the professor of sylviculture at l'cole nationale d'Agriculture de Grignon.  References 
Acha was a Hungarian prelate in the second half of the 11th century, who served as Archbishop of Esztergom from around 1087 to 1090.  Etymology  His name may come from Turkic aa, meaning open, clear, clean.  Career  Born into the native nobility, he was of Hungarian origin. As he did not adopt a Christian name, he was not a member of the Benedictine Order, in contrast to most contemporary prelates. It is possible that, as his successors, he was one of the court clergymen during the reign of Ladislaus I of Hungary. A document from 1134, which contains a verdict of Archbishop Felician, narrates the circumstances of the foundation of the Diocese of Zagreb, where Acha was mentioned as Archbishop of Esztergom, thus he held the dignity around then, when Ladislaus set up the episcopate. According to historian Lszl Koszta, it is presumable that Acha already served as archbishop during the canonization of Stephen I in 1083. 17th-century Jesuit scholar Melchior Inchofer argued Ladislaus sent his envoy, Archbishop Acha to Pope Urban II in 1088 in order to prepare his invasion of Croatia and ask the pope's consent. Based on historian Blint Hman's research, the Diocese of Zagreb...
The Launceston Cup is a Tasmanian Turf Club Group 3 open handicap Thoroughbred horse race run over a distance of 2400 metres at Launceston Racecourse in Mowbray, Tasmania, Australia in February.  History  The race is part of the Tasmanian Summer Racing Carnival, and is also one of Tasmania's main annual social events. The Cup was first run in 1865. A notable achievement, unlikely to be repeated, was performed by the horse Strop who won the race four times over a 10-year period . St Andrews, trained by George Blackler won the race in 2000, 2002 and 2003. The Vamos Stakes which is held on the same race-day is named in honour of the horse Vamos which won the Launceston Cup in 1954 and 1955.  Distance  1865-1873 - 3 miles 1874-1879 - 2 miles 1880-1891 - 134 miles 1892-1968 - 112 miles 1969-1973 - 158 miles 1974-2001 - 2600 metres 2002 onwards - 2400 metres  Grade  1875-1979 - Principal race 1980 onwards - Group 3 race  1951 racebook   Winners  The following are past winners of the race.  See also  Vamos Stakes List of Australian Group races Group...
Nadleh Whuten First Nation is a First Nations government of the Dakelh people, whose territory is located in the Central Interior of British Columbia, Canada, around the east end of Fraser Lake. The nation has seven reserves which Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Development Canada refer to as IR1-9. Reserves 5 and 6 split from Nadleh Whuten and make up Stellaten First Nation. Until 1990, it was referred to as the Fraser Lake Indian Band. Nadleh Whuten has 630 registered members as of October 2025, of which half live on reserve.  Geography  Most of the nation's members reside in Nadleh, the main community, while others live in Lejac. Nadleh is located along the banks of the Nautley river, between Fraser Lake and the Nechako River. Lejac is located on the south side of Fraser Lake, on the site of the former Lejac Residential School. Facilities at the Nadleh reserve include the Band Office, TreatyLands Management Office, Forestry Office, Catholic Church, convenience store, fire hall, maintenance shop, adult learning centre, health centre, outdoor hockey rink, and community smokehouse. The Nadleh Koh School...
Undergraduate medical education in Nigeria started in 1948 in Ibadan, based wholly on a British curriculum. Since then, medical schools expanded across the country, and medical universities now exist in almost every state, including federal, state and private universities. Medical education in Nigeria is controlled by the National Universities Commission , and the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria .  Background  In 1927, the government set up a five-year diploma programme to train medical manpower it was ineffective as the teachers and facilities were inadequate to train doctors to standards acceptable outside the country. The doctors were trained to practice only in Nigeria and were subjected to differential conditions of service compared to foreign-trained doctors. The ineffectiveness eventually led to its abolishment. In 1948, a college branch of the University of London was set up in Ibadan, and the graduates were to be trained at par with British counterparts and awarded a degree of the University of London. This birthed undergraduate medical education in Nigeria.  Education   Undergraduate  The undergraduate medical education in Nigeria lasts at least...
The Provinces of Fiji are the 14 administrative units into which the country is divided, particularly in relation to the provision of resources and services to the indigenous Fijian population by the Fijian Affairs Board. They are more or less derived from the major clan affiliations for each provincial region.  Structure  The most basic administrative unit in modern Fijian communities is the koro . Each village is led by a village headman called the turaga-ni-koro, who is elected by the other villagers. A subunit of the yasana is the tikina, which is composed of several koros. Each yasana is governed by a provincial council, mainly composed of well educated people, and chiefly Fijians, and headed up by an executive head, under the title Roko Tui.  Provinces  The largest province by land area according to the latest Fiji Bureau of statistics is Cakaudrove followed by Ba and Nadroga-Navosa The largest province by population is Ba Province with 247, 708 according to 2017 census. The fourteen provinces, their population and the present Roko Tui are:  List of provinces of Fiji by Human Development... 
Novo-Ogaryovo , also transliterated as Novo-Ogarevo, is an estate in the Odintsovsky District of Moscow Oblast, located by the Rublyovo-Uspenskoye Highway west of the city of Moscow. It operates as the suburban residence of the president of Russia, officially recognized as such in 2000, although, throughout President Vladimir Putin's second tenure, he has spent progressively more time at Novo-Ogaryovo, so much so that it has been unofficially termed the de facto residence of the head of state.  History  Novo-Ogaryovo was constructed in the first half of the 1950s on the foundation of a 19th-century villa, at the behest of Georgy Malenkov, using his architect daughter's design. Construction work was under way when Malenkov was removed from his position of Premier of the Soviet Union in 1955, and the place was then used as a gosdacha, a state dacha, or vacation retreat for housing guests, for receptions, and as a workplace for various government committees. Since 1991, Novo-Ogaryovo has been reserved as a government residence, mostly unused until Russian president Vladimir Putin had it renovated in 2000. A six-meter-high wall...
Falesco is a winery and vineyard established in Montefiascone, Italy in 1979. It has been described as a state-of-the-art winery and its production facilities are now located in Montecchio. It's a family owned business, currently run by Riccardo Cotarella, his daughter Dominga, and his brother Renzo. Falesco contains 670 acres, 370 of which are vineyards. Annual production is almost 3 million bottles. The estate straddles the border of Lazio and Umbria, about 50 miles north of Rome.  Wines  Falesco does not utilize heavily planted, traditional Italian grape varieties such as Canaiolo and Trebbiano in its higher-quality wines. Although these varieties produce excellent yields, the winery maintains that the quality of the wines made from those varieties are not great. Breaking with Italian tradition, they planted the best clones of Merlot available to produce a wine they call Montiano. Wine writer Lawrence Osborne has called Montiano a globally significant wine. The winery also produces a distinctive local white wine called Est! Est!! Est!!! di Montefiascone. This wine is made of 60 percent Trebbiano 30 percent Malvasia and 10 percent Roscetto, and is considered...
Yuko Nakanishi , Nakanishi Yko born April 24, 1981 in Ikeda, Osaka, Japan is a Japanese butterfly swimmer. She attended Osaka Seikei Girls' High School.  Major achievements  2000 Sydney Olympics 200m butterfly 7th Heat 2:10.22, Semifinal 2:09.89, Final 2:09.66 2004 Athens Olympics 100m butterfly 14th 200m butterfly 3rd Heat 2:10.04, Semifinal 2:08.83, Final 2:08.04 2008 Beijing Olympics 100m butterfly 18th 200m butterfly 5th Heat 2:06.62, Semifinal 2:06.96, Final 2:07.32  Personal bests  In long course 100m butterfly: 58.52 200m butterfly: 2:06.38 Japanese Record  References  http:www.joc.or.jpbeijingathleteaquaticsnakanishiyuko.html Archived 2008-09-12 at the Wayback Machine
Gorsedd normally refers to: Gorsedd Cymru, community of Welsh bards It may also refer to: Goursez Vreizh, community of Breton bards Gorsedh Kernow, community of Cornish bards Gorsedd, Flintshire, Wales, a village in the community of Whitford, North Wales Gorseddau may also refer to: Gorseddau, Gwynedd, a village and former slate quarry in North Wales Gorseddau Tramway, former 3 ft gauge railway to the quarry Gorseddau Junction and Portmadoc Railway, former 2 ft gauge railway to the quarry
The Gateway to the Great Temple at Baalbec is an oil on canvas by the British artist David Roberts, from 1841. It depicts the ruined ancient Roman temple complex at the city of Baalbek in Lebanon. Roberts had visited the site in 1839 during his first tour of the Middle East. He added figures in local costume to help emphasise the grand scale of the buildings. The work was displayed at the Royal Academy Exhibition of 1843 at the National Gallery in London. Roberts was elected a full member of the academy and presented this painting as his diploma work.  References   Bibliography  Guiterman, Helen. David Roberts, 1796-1864, Artist, Adventurer. Scottish Arts Council, 1981. Sim, Katherine. David Roberts R.A., 1796-1864: A Biography. Quartet Books, 1984.
The mixed doubles tennis event of the 2019 Pan American Games was held from July 30 through August 3 at the Club Lawn Tennis de la Exposicin in Lima, Peru. Alexa Guarachi and Nicols Jarry of Chile won the gold medal, defeating Noelia Zeballos and Federico Zeballos of Bolivia in the final, 6-1, 6-3. Anastasia Iamachkine and Sergio Galds of Peru won the bronze medal, defeating Andrea Weedon and Wilfredo Gonzlez of Guatemala in the bronze-medal match, 7-5, 6-1.  Seeds   Draw  Key  Draw   References   External links  Draw
Prisoner of War is the third episode of the first season of the TNT science fiction drama Falling Skies, which originally aired June 26, 2011. The episode was written by Fred Golan and directed by Greg Beeman. The 2nd Mass is joined by Dr. Michael Harris, the only doctor to have discovered how to safely unharness enslaved children. A failed attempt to reclaim Tom's son Ben leaves Hal and his girlfriend Karen at the mercy of the aliens. A Skitter later orders a Mech to kill the remaining kids in front of Hal, then releases Hal to deliver a message: take one, the rest die.  Plot  Tom's group and Margaret discover kids with harnesses collecting scrap metal for the aliens. Tom sees his son, Ben, and the group prepares to grab him. Karen accidentally knocks a loose piece of rock from the building, alerting the aliens and the group runs away. Back at the school, Col. Porter tells Tom that a doctor has a theory on how to remove the harnesses and that he wants to test it on Ben. Col. Porter informed the 2nd Mass. that due to electronic communications being destroyed after the Skitters detonated their EMP attack at the start of the invasion, the resistance had to rely on sending scouts...
Pet food is animal feed intended for consumption by pets. Typically sold in pet stores and supermarkets, it is usually specific to the type of animal, such as dog food or cat food. Most meat used for animals is a byproduct of the human food industry, and is not regarded as human grade. Examples of foods for pets would be canned foods and dry mix. Pet food production has environmental, land-use and climate change impacts. In 2019, the world pet food market was valued at US87.09 billion and is projected to grow to US113.2 billion by the year 2024. The pet food market is dominated by five major companies, as of 2020: Mars, Inc., Nestle Purina Petcare, J. M. Smucker, Hill's Pet Nutrition, Inc. , and Blue Buffalo Co. Ltd .  Industry  In the United States, pet-food sales in 2016 reached an all-time high of 28.23 billion. Mars is the leading company in the pet food industry, making about 17 billion annually in pet-care products. Online sales of pet food are increasing and contributing to this growth. Online sales in the US increased 15 percent in 2015. Worldwide, the compound annual growth rate of pet food purchased online was...
A food desert is an area that has limited access to affordable, fresh, healthy, and nutritious food. Food deserts are commonly paired with food swamps, which lack grocery stores and instead have convenience stores or fast food. In contrast, an area with greater access to grocers or farmers' markets with fresh foods may be called a food oasis. Food deserts are commonly associated with food insecurity and are linked to worsening health outcome including an increased risk of developing chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. In 2025, the United States Department of Agriculture reported that an estimated 12.8 of the US population were living in low-income and low-access census tracts. Of this number, 22 million people live in food deserts, which they define as low-income census tracts that are more than 1 mile from a supermarket in urban or suburban areas and more than 10 miles from a supermarket in rural areas. However, food deserts are not just a complication that arises because of distance to grocery stores other structural barriers, such as food accessibility, affordability, transportation struggles, and socio-economic...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 312 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
JSDelivr is a public content delivery network for open-source software projects, including packages hosted on GitHub, npm, and WordPress.org. JSDelivr was created by developer Dmitriy Akulov. As of September 2022, jsDelivr is estimated to be the third most popular CDN for JavaScript code, behind cdnjs and Google Hosted Libraries. On October 14, 2020, it became the official CDN of Bootstrap. On March 21, 2023, it was announced that jsDelivr joined the CDN Alliance non-profit organization. In May 2023 jsDelivr launched Globalping, a new open source project offering network monitoring APIs and tools.  Features  jsDelivr is primarily used to load code and other resources from repositories on GitHub, npm, and the theme and plugin directories for WordPress. Software developers can request a specific version of a software package, or load the latest available version. jsDelivr can also minify any file in JavaScript, CSS, or SVG format, which can reduce loading times. jsDelivr permanently caches requested files, so they remain accessible even if the original software repository is moved or deleted.  Operation  jsDelivr is powered by other contenttdelivery...
GIT Academy is a Tvet vocational training institution specialising in tourism education, professional development, and industry-specific skills. Founded in 1994, it is recognised by the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture Malaysia and registered as a Human Resource Development Corporation Training Provider.  History  GIT Academy was established in 1994. Over the years, the institution expanded to include tour leader training, corporate learning modules, and niche tourism programmes. In 2024, GIT Academy entered a collaboration with AirAsia Drone to introduce drone-oriented tourism safety training.  See also  Tourism in Malaysia Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture AirAsia  References 
In version control systems, a commit is an operation which sends the latest changes of the source code to the repository, making these changes part of the head revision of the repository. Unlike commits in data management, commits in version control systems are kept in the repository indefinitely. Thus, when other users do an update or a checkout from the repository, they will receive the latest committed version, unless they specify that they wish to retrieve a previous version of the source code in the repository. Version control systems allow rolling back to previous versions easily. In this context, a commit within a version control system is protected as it is easily rolled back, even after the commit has been applied.  Usage   Git  To commit a change in git on the command line, assuming git is installed, the following command is run: git commit -m 'commit message' This is also assuming that the files within the current directory have been staged as such: git add . The above command adds all of the files in the working directory to be staged for the git commit. After the commit has been applied, the last step is to push the commit to the given software repository, in...
Randy Scouse Git is a song written by Micky Dolenz in 1967 and recorded by the Monkees. It was the first song written by Dolenz to be commercially released, and it became a number 2 hit in the UK where it was retitled Alternate Title after the record company complained that the original title was actually somewhat rude to British audiences and requested that The Monkees supply an alternate title. Dolenz took the song's title from a phrase he had heard spoken on an episode of the British television series Till Death Us Do Part, which he had watched while in England. The song also appeared on The Monkees TV series, on their album Headquarters, and on several Greatest Hits albums. Peter Tork said that it was one of his favorite Monkees tracks.  Background  In July 1967, Micky Dolenz, Peter Tork and Michael Nesmith were in London and the Beatles threw a party for the Monkees in London. According to Dolenz, the song was written about this party held at the Speakeasy nightclub. There are references in the song to the Beatles and to other party attendees such as Cass Elliot of the Mamas  the Papas , and Dolenz's future...
GitLab Inc. is an American company that operates and develops GitLab, an open-core DevOps software package that can develop, secure, and operate software. GitLab includes a distributed version control system based on Git, including features such as access control, bug tracking, software feature requests, task management, and wikis for every project, as well as snippets. The open-source software project was created by Ukrainian developer Dmytro Zaporozhets and Dutch developer Sytse Sijbrandij. In 2018, GitLab Inc. was considered to be the first partly Ukrainian unicorn. GitLab has an estimated over 30 million registered users, including 1 million active licensed users. There are more than 3,300 code contributors and team members in 60 countries.  Overview  GitLab B.V. was established in 2014 in Utrecht to continue the development of the open-source code-sharing platform launched in 2011 by Dmytro Zaporozhets in Ukraine. The company's co-founder Sytse Sijbrandij initially contributed to the project and decided to build a business around it. GitLab offers its platform using a freemium model. Since its founding, GitLab Inc. has promoted remote work and is known as one...
Cogito is a revision control system layered on top of Git. It is historically the first Git frontend, which appeared in April 2005, just days after Git itself. While Git was initially meant just as the low-level interface, Cogito started with the stated goal of becoming a user-friendly front-end. Cogito is generally considered to be more familiar to people used to working with other SCM tools like CVS and Subversion, although it still follows the model of distributed development used by Git. Cogito has significantly fewer sub-commands than Git, in line with its purpose to present a simple user interface sufficient for common workflows. As of May 2006, Cogito has only 41 sub-commands, compared to Git's 119. Some features that started in Cogito migrated later to Git, making Git more suitable for standalone use. As an example of simplification of the interface, Cogito hides the concept of index cache from the users. Any modified file is considered eligible for commit by Cogito, just as in CVS or Subversion. Cogito has full compatibility with remote Git repositories. It also retains a high degree of compatibility with Git for local operations. Many Git commands...
In software development, distributed version control also known as distributed revision control is a form of version control in which the complete codebase, including its full history, is mirrored on every developer's computer. Compared to centralized version control, this enables automatic management branching and merging, speeds up most operations , improves the ability to work offline, and does not rely on a single location for backups. Git, the world's most popular version control system, is a distributed version control system.  Distributed vs. centralized  Distributed version control systems use a peer-to-peer approach to version control, as opposed to the client-server approach of centralized systems. Distributed revision control synchronizes repositories by transferring patches from peer to peer. There is no single central version of the codebase instead, each user has a working copy and the full change history. Advantages of DVCS include: Allows users to work productively when not connected to a network. Common operations such as commits, viewing history, and reverting changes are faster for DVCS...
Gitgit Waterfall Indonesian: Air Terjun Gitgit, Balinese: , Grobogan Gitgit is a waterfall on Bali, Indonesia. It is located on the north of the Southeast Asian island between the old island capital of Singaraja and the inland village of Munduk. The waterfall is a popular tourist destination in Bali, known for its height and the surrounding foliage and natural swimming pools, accessible by a rocky walking trail. The falls are located in Gitgit Village in the Sukasada District, around 10 kilometres from Singaraja, 26 kilometres from Munduk and 83 kilometres from Denpasar's Ngurah Rai International Airport.  See also  List of waterfalls  References   External links  Media related to Gitgit at Wikimedia Commons
libostree is a system for versioning updates of Linux-based operating systems. It can be considered Git for operating system binaries. It operates in userspace, and will work on top of any Linux file system. At its core is a Git-like content-addressed object store with branches to track meaningful file system trees within the store.  Features  OSTree is closely inspired by Git. It operates on commits which refer to filesystem trees. To refer to different commits while maintaining a user-readable name, OSTree provides references , such as exampleosbuildmainx8664-runtime. Files provided by commits are by default immutable, done by mounting the filesystem itself as read-only. OSTree allows for two mutable directories for storing user data: etc and var. It provides a mechanism to allow filesystem trees to add configuration files to etc while also allowing system administrators to edit those files in a persistent manner. OSTree provides bootloader management for hardware deployments. This enables atomic updates, as OSTree can create deployments and atomically insert them into the boot partition. It also allows for...
The Monument to the Lost Children is a memorial in Vught, Netherlands. The monument is located on the grounds of the National Monument Camp Vught and was erected to commemorate the children's transports on June 6 and 7, 1943, from Camp Vught via Camp Westerbork to Sobibr. More than a thousand Jewish children and their parents were transported under the pretense of relocation to a special children's camp. Upon arrival at the extermination camp Sobibr in occupied Poland, they were immediately gassed.  Description  The monument was created by Teus van den Berg-Been and unveiled on September 5, 1999, by the Stichting Vriendenkring Nationaal Monument Vught. It consists of a base made of natural stone with bronze memorial plaques. The plaques are connected at the top with Stars of David. The names of all 1,269 children, along with their ages, are inscribed on the plaques. The lowest plaque bears a passage from the Bible: THE CHILD IS NOT...AND I, WHERE SHALL I GO!Gusen concentration camp GENESIS 37:30 In front of the plaques lies cast bronze toys. The inscription on the plaque at the base of the monument reads: MORE THAN 1800 JEWISH CHILDREN...
Beirut chess is a chess variant invented by Jim Winslow in 1992. The game is played using the standard chess pieces and board, with each side having secretly equipped one of their men with a bomb-which can be detonated at any time, wiping out all men on surrounding squares along with the bomb carrier.  Game rules  Beirut chess follows all the rules and conventions of standard chess, with one difference: Before the game begins, each player secretly attaches a red dot to the bottom of one of their pieces . This piece is called a bomb carrier. On any turn, instead of moving, a player may say Boom! and overturn their bomb carrier. All pieces of either color on squares adjacent to the bomb carrier are removed from the game, as well as the bomb carrier itself. There are two ways to win: Checkmate the opponent. Blow up the enemy king. A captured piece may not be inspected to see whether or not it was a bomb carrier.  See also  Atomic chess - another variant based on detonations Chessence - another variant by Jim Winslow Stratomic - another variant based on detonations  References  Bibliography Pritchard, D. B. . Beirut Chess. The Encyclopedia...
Vilhelm Alexander Hellman was a Swedish ski jumper. He competed in the individual event at the 1948 Winter Olympics. Hellman represented Djurgrdens IF.  References   External links  Vilhelm Hellman at the Swedish Olympic Committee Vilhelm Hellman at Olympedia
Jean-Marie Paul Bauchet was a French Carmelite of the Congregation of the Blessed Sacrament, translator and Hebraist. Bauchet re-edited the Hebrew New Testament of Franz Delitzsch. After studying in France and Iraq, he moved to Jerusalem in 1941. In Jerusalem, he worked on translating Christian texts into Hebrew. He received his doctorate from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1949. In 1974 he translated the entire New Testament into Hebrew.  Works  various works in Hebrew inc. The Life of St. Dominic Paul Bauchet, 'Transcription and Translation of a Psalm from Sukenik's Dead Sea scroll', CBQ 12 , 331-5. 7.  References 
Pollard Glacier is a glacier flowing into the south side of Comrie Glacier to the east of Bradford Glacier, on the west coast of Graham Land. Mapped by the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey from photos taken by Hunting Aerosurveys Ltd. in 1956-57. Named by the United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee for Alan F.C. Pollard , English documentalist, founder and first president of the British Society for International Bibliography, and pioneer in the introduction of the Universal Decimal Classification into British libraries. This article incorporates public domain material from Pollard Glacier. Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.
This article includes a list of 57 member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation sorted by their imports.  Notes   See also  Organisation of Islamic Cooperation Economy of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation List of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation member states by GDP List of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation member states by GDP per capita List of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation member states by exports
The first USS Advance was a brigantine in the United States Navy which participated in an Arctic rescue expedition. Advance was built in 1847 as Augusta in New Kent County, Virginia and loaned to the Navy on 7 May 1850 by Henry Grinnell to participate in the search for Sir John Franklin's Arctic expedition which had been stranded in the frozen north since 1846. After last-minute preparations, the ship, under the command of Lieutenant Edwin J. De Haven and in company with Rescue, put to sea from New York on 23 May 1850.  First rescue expedition  Storms battered the two ships on the initial leg of the voyage and separated them. However, both safely reached Disko Island, located off the west coast of Greenland where Davis Strait gives way to Baffin Bay. Advance arrived on 24 June, and Rescue pulled into port three days later. On the 29th, the two ships headed into Baffin Bay, bound for Lancaster Sound located north of Baffin Island and south of Devon Island. Off Haroe Island on 1 July, Advance encountered pack ice. A week later, she and her consort were caught in the pack just north of Upernavik. For the next three weeks, the two ships fought their way through the ice. On the 29th...
Sphaerodactylus argus, also known commonly as the ocellated gecko, the ocellated sphaero, and the stippled sphaero, is a species of lizard in the family Sphaerodactylidae native to the Caribbean and surrounding regions. There are two recognized subspecies.  Etymology  The specific name, argus, refers to Argus, the many-eyed giant in Greek mythology, an allusion to the ocelli of this species.  Geographic range  S. argus is found in Jamaica, Cuba and on adjacent islets, The Bahamas, San Andres and Providencia in Colombia and in the Yucatn Peninsula of Mexico. S. argus can also be found in the Florida Keys, where it has well-established populations, though introduced.  Habitat  The preferred natural habitat of S. argus is forest, at altitudes from sea level to 100 m . A climbing species, it can also be seen on walls and in buildings.  Diet  S. argus feeds on insects and other small invertebrates.  Reproduction  S. argus is oviparous.  Subspecies  Two subspecies are recognized as being valid, including the nominate subspecies. S. a. argus Gosse, 1850 S. a. andresensis Dunn  Saxe, 1950  References   Further reading  Dunn ER, Saxe LH...
Graziano Gasparini was a Venezuelan architect, photographer, painter and historian, sometimes referred to as Graciano Gasparini ie using a Spanish version of his first name.  Life  Gasparini was born in Gorizia, on the Italian-Slovenian border, in 1924. After completing his education in Venice, he worked for Carlo Scarpa in connection with the Biennale. After a break caused by the Second World War, the famous exhibition resumed in 1948, and Gasparini first visited Venezuela that year while promoting it. He settled in Caracas and pursued a career as an architect. He specialised in restoring Spanish Colonial architecture, while developing a parallel career as an architectural historian. The buildings he worked on include the Bolivarian Museum in Caracas, which was inaugurated in 1960. His scholarship was recognised by the award of a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1987. He died in Caracas, aged 95.  Personal life   Marriages  Gasparini's first wife was the Venezuelan sociologist Olga Lagrange, who died in 1971. Some of his publications were written jointly with his second wife, the American anthropologist Luise Margolies.  Brother  His brother...
My Big Fat Greek Wedding is a 2002 romantic comedy film directed by Joel Zwick and written by Nia Vardalos. It stars an ensemble cast led by Vardalos, John Corbett, Lainie Kazan, Michael Constantine, Gia Carides, Louis Mandylor, Andrea Martin, and Joey Fatone. It follows a young Greek-American woman who falls in love with a non-Greek man and struggles to get her family to accept him, while coming to terms with her heritage and cultural identity. An international co-production between the United States and Canada, the film premiered at the American Film Market on February 22, 2002, and was theatrically released in the United States on April 19, by IFC Films. It received positive reviews from critics and was a box office success, grossing 368.7 million worldwide against its 5 million budget, becoming the ninth-highest-grossing film of 2002. At the 60th Golden Globe Awards, it earned two nominations: Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and Best Actress in a Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy . It was also nominated for Best Original Screenplay at the 75th Academy Awards, while Vardalos won Best Debut Performance at the 18th Independent Spirit Awards. The film spawned...
Scutomyia is a subgenus of Aedes.  Species  Aedes albolineatus Aedes arboricolus Knight and Rozeboom, 1946 Aedes bambusicolus Knight and Rozeboom, 1946 Aedes boharti Knight and Rozeboom, 1946 Aedes hoogstraali Knight and Rozeboom, 1946 Aedes impatibilis Aedes laffooni Knight and Rozeboom, 1946 Aedes platylepidus Knight and Hull, 1951 Aedes pseudoalbolineatus Brug, 1939  References 
Honn, Honnou, or, according to circumstances, Honno is a Japanese word , and is divided into two meanings by the difference in a kanji.  means instinct, the inherent inclination of a living organism towards a particular complex behavior  is the place name of Honn, Mobara-shi, Chiba where Honn Station stands  may also refer to follows:  Music  Honn , Japanese singer Ringo Sheena's 4th single and it was released on October 27, 1999 by Toshiba EMI  East World  See also  Honno
The Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering Society is a technical society representing the biomedical engineering community in Canada. CMBES is supported by its membership which consists of biomedical engineers, biomedical engineering technologists and students. CMBES also hosts an annual conference and regular webinars. It produces a number of publications including the Clinical Engineering Standards of Practice and a Newsletter. The Society's aims are twofold: scientific and educational: directed toward the advancement of the theory and practice of medical device technology and professional: directed toward the advancement of all individuals in Canada who are engaged in interdisciplinary work involving engineering, the life sciences and medicine.  Conference  The first Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering Conference was held September 8 and 9, 1966 in Ottawa, Ontario. CMBES continues to host an annual conference including sponsor seminars, technical paper presentations including peer-reviews, a conference proceedings, affiliation with Journal of Medical and Biological Engineering, vendor exhibit of current medical devices, a continuing education program, workshops...
Andrew Collins is an Australian rules football coach and former player who is currently the director of coaching at the Port Adelaide Football Club. He played for the Hawthorn Football Club in the VictorianAustralian Football League . Collins was a rugged back pocket defender. He began his senior career in the Victorian Football Association with the Sandringham Football Club, where he was a member of the club's 1985 premiership team. He was signed by VFLAFL club Hawthorn, and played 212 games over ten years with the club, winning three premierships. His durability allowed him to play a club record 189 games in succession. He finished equal fifth in the 1990 Brownlow Medal, the same year he was awarded the Peter Crimmins Medal as Hawthorn's best and fairest player. His last game was the merger game between Hawthorn and Melbourne in 1996, in which he got reported and ultimately suspended, thus ending his consecutive run of games. When Collins retired from league football at the end of 1996, he turned to coaching. He returned to his old club Sandringham in the VFL, and coached there for two years, leading the club to the premiership in 1997. He served...
NGC 2023 is an emission and reflection nebula in the equatorial constellation of Orion. It was discovered by the German-born astronomer William Herschel on 6 January 1785. This reflection nebula is one of the largest in the sky, with a size of 10  10 arcminutes. It is located at a distance of 1,300 ly from the Sun, and is positioned 15 to the northeast of the Horsehead Nebula. This star-forming nebula forms part of the Orion B molecular cloud, or Lynds 1630, and is located in the northern section of this complex. In terms of stellar density, it is the poorest of the four clusters embedded in the cloud complex, with only 21 embedded infrared sources. The reflection nebula is illuminated by the Herbig AeBe star HD 37903, which has a spectral class of about B2 Ve. The region around the central star is radiating fluorescent molecular hydrogen emission at a near-infrared range. Infrared emission of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons has been detected from the nebula's dust.  Gallery   References   External links  Sunset glow in Orion. Hubble Space Telescope. NASA. 25 July 2011. VizieR - NGC 2023 NED - NGC 2023 NGC 2023 on WikiSky: DSS2, SDSS, GALE, IRAS, Hydrogen...
Chemicals is the debut single from Love and Death Paralyzed was released under the name 'Brian Head Welch'. The song is included on both Chemicals and Between Here  Lost, and was ranked No. 6 on the Billboard Hot Singles Sales chart.  Premise  According to JesusFreakHideout, the song seems to talk about Welch's substance addiction. Welch states that the composition refers to battling depression, chemical warfare and the cage that is drug addiction.  Reviews  Liz Ramanand of Loudwire describes the song as being one of the strongest songs on Between Here  Lost, in that it leans toward being melodic and is catchy with ear shattering guitar verses.  Video  The video begins with lead vocalist Brian Welch running from a man in a black hooded sweatshirt wearing a grotesque mask. The video then switches between various scenes of the band members having ropes tied around their hands. Bassist Michael Valentine is then captured by the man in the mask and taken into the alley. After Valentine is captured, guitarist JR Bareis is then seen running from the masked man. Dan Johnson is subsequently chased, tipping a trash container down to try to trip the masked man. Bareis...
The 2007 Super League Grand Final was 10th official Grand Final and the conclusive and championship-deciding match of the Super League II season. Held on Saturday 13 October 2007, at Old Trafford in Manchester, the game was played between St. Helens, who finished top of the league after the 27 weekly rounds, and Leeds Rhinos, who finished second after the weekly rounds.  Background  Going into this game, St Helens had never lost in a Grand Final - they had won in 1999, 2000, 2002 and 2006. Leeds Rhinos had one win from 2004 and two losses . The St Helens stand-off, Leon Pryce, made a record-breaking seventh Grand Final appearance by playing in this game with previous appearances playing with Bradford Bulls and St Helens. The pre-match coin toss was won by Leeds Rhinos. They chose to kick off and defended from the Stretford End of Old Trafford. Katherine Jenkins was forced to withdraw herself from the pre-match entertainment due to a flu bug, her replacement was Russell Watson, who performed the Grand Final hymn, Jerusalem. Watson performed before the game at the first Super League Grand Final.  Route to the Final   St Helens   Leeds Rhinos   Match... 
National Route 302 is a national highway of Japan connecting Nakagawa-ku, Nagoya and Nakagawa-ku, Nagoya in Japan, with a total length of 54 km . Route 302 serves as Nagoya's inner loop and runs concurrent with much of the Mei-Nikan Expressway.  References 
Bloom Bloom is the second single album by South Korean boy group The Boyz. It was released on April 29, 2019 through Cre.Ker Entertainment. The single album consists of three tracks.  Background  The Boyz released their second single album Bloom Bloom and its lead single Bloom Bloom on April 29. On May 7, The group received their first-ever music show win on SBS M's The Show by Bloom Bloom.  Track listing   Charts   Accolades   Release history   References 
Petroleum geology is the study of the origins, occurrence, movement, accumulation, and exploration of hydrocarbon fuels. It refers to the specific set of geological disciplines that are applied to the search for hydrocarbons .  Sedimentary basin analysis  Petroleum geology is principally concerned with the evaluation of seven key elements in sedimentary basins: Source Reservoir Seal Trap Timing Maturation Migration In general, all these elements must be assessed via a limited 'window' into the subsurface world, provided by one exploration wells. These wells present only a one-dimensional segment through the Earth, and the skill of inferring three-dimensional characteristics from them is one of the most fundamental in petroleum geology. Recently, the availability of inexpensive, high-quality 3D seismic data and data from various electromagnetic geophysical techniques has greatly aided the accuracy of such interpretation. The following section discusses these elements in brief. For a more in-depth treatise, see the second half of this article below. Evaluation of the source uses the methods...
Planetary geology, alternatively known as astrogeology or exogeology, is a planetary science discipline concerned with the geology of celestial bodies such as planets and their moons, asteroids, comets, and meteorites. Although the geo- prefix typically indicates topics of or relating to Earth, planetary geology is named as such for historical and convenience reasons due to the subject matter, it is closely linked with more traditional Earth-based geology. Planetary geology includes such topics as determining the properties and processes of the internal structure of the terrestrial planets, surface processes such as volcanism, impact craters, even fluvial and aeolian action where applicable. Despite their outermost layers being dominated by gases, the giant planets are also included in the field of planetary geology, especially when it comes to their interiors. Fields within Planetary geology are largely derived from fields in the traditional geological sciences, such as geophysics, geomorphology, and geochemistry.  History  Eugene Merle Shoemaker is credited with bringing geologic principles to planetary mapping and creating the branch of planetary science in the early 1960s...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 323 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A high-level programming language is a programming language with strong abstraction from the details of the computer. In contrast to low-level programming languages, it may use natural language elements, be easier to use, or may automate significant areas of computing systems , making the process of developing a program simpler and more understandable than when using a lower-level language. The amount of abstraction provided defines how high-level a programming language is. High-level refers to a level of abstraction from the hardware details of a processor inherent in machine and assembly code. Rather than dealing with registers, memory addresses, and call stacks, high-level languages deal with variables, arrays, objects, arithmetic and Boolean expressions, functions, loops, threads, locks, and other computer science abstractions, intended to facilitate correctness and maintainability. Unlike low-level assembly languages, high-level languages have few, if any, language elements that translate directly to a machine's native opcodes. Other features, such as string handling, object-oriented programming features, and file inputoutput...
This is a record of notable programming languages, by decade.  1790s   1800s   1830s   1840s   1870s   1940s   1950s   1960s   1970s   1980s   1990s   2000s   2010s   2020s   See also  History of computing hardware History of programming languages Programming language Timeline of computing Timeline of programming language theory  References   External links  Online Historical Encyclopaedia of Programming Languages Diagram  history of programming languages Eric Levenez's timeline diagram of computer languages history
This is an index to notable programming languages, in current or historical use. Dialects of BASIC , esoteric programming languages, and markup languages are not included. A programming language does not need to be imperative or Turing-complete, but must be executable and so does not include markup languages such as HTML or ML, but does include domain-specific languages such as SQL and its dialects.  A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O   P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   W      Y   Z   See also  Category:Programming languages Comparison of programming languages History of programming languages List of BASIC dialects List of integrated development environments List of markup languages List of open-source programming languages List of programming languages by type List of programming languages for artificial intelligence List of stylesheet languages Lists of programming languages List of hello world programs at Wikibooks
In computer science, functional programming is a programming paradigm where programs are constructed by applying and composing functions. It is a declarative programming paradigm in which function definitions are trees of expressions that map values to other values, rather than a sequence of imperative statements which update the running state of the program. In functional programming, functions are treated as first-class entities, meaning that they can be bound to names , passed as arguments, and returned from other functions, just as any other data type can. This allows programs to be written in a declarative and composable style, where small functions are combined in a modular manner. Functional programming is sometimes treated as synonymous with purely functional programming, a subset of functional programming that treats all functions as deterministic mathematical functions, or pure functions. When a pure function is called with some given arguments, it will always return the same result, and cannot be affected by any mutable state or other side effects. This is in contrast with impure procedures, common in imperative programming, which can have side...
Louis Bout was a French teacher and anarcho-syndicalist. He played a leading role in the National Federation of Teachers' Unions and in the socialist party. He was briefly a member of the steering committee of the French Communist Party. For many years he edited the pedagogical review L'Ecole Emancipe , which he had founded.  Early years  Louis Bout was born on 6 April 1880 in Montfaucon-sur-Moine, Maine-et-Loire, 20 kilometres from Cholet. His father was a shoemaker and caf operator, with little money and less faith. A great uncle in the church offered to pay his fees if he entered the minor seminary to become a priest, but Bout was not a believer and wanted to become a teacher. He managed to gain admission in 1897 to the cole normale in Angers. He was influenced by the headmaster who was a socialist and supporter of Dreyfus. After leaving school Bout was assigned to Trlaz and then Saumur, where he stayed for two years before being called up for military service. While at Saumur he spent time with mile Masson who told him about libertarian doctrines. He met Gabrielle Dechezelles, an accountant in a wholesale...
Gymnothorax prismodon is a moray eel found in the eastern central Pacific Ocean, specifically Hawaii. The species was described by ichthyologists Eugenia Brandt Bhlke John Ernest Randall in 2000. It is commonly known as the sawtooth moray. The species is preyed on by the Hawaiian monk seal.  References 
The Unar is a Sindhi tribe from Sameja Branch of Samma Tribe, they are the descendants of Jam Unar, the first Sultan of Sindh. They are an influential family in Sindh and are in the politics. They are living in Nawabshah, Kazi Ahmed Taluka, Larkana, and Jacobabad districts of Sindh.  Mughal Era  After the end of the Samma Dynasty, the Unar tribe which was descended from House of Unar, was deprived of much of its land and political status. Despite this, they remained rebellious toward subsequent regimes including the Arghuns, Tarkhans, and the Mughals.  Region and Population  During the 17th century they were mainly settled in the sarkars of Nasarpur and Sehwan, where they were known as the Sameja Unars. They were divided into several sub-branches including Sanrya, and Kiriya. Sanrya were further divided into Rahuja, Manahija, and Firuzja. The Sameja Unars, including women and children, numbered about 20,000. Their military strength was estimated at 5,000 to 6,000 troopers and around 1,500 foot soldiers. The Sanriya branch alone, settled in pargana Lakhat, reportedly maintained about 5,000 soldiers, including 1,000 cavalrymen and 4,000 infantries. Sanrya owned...
Epidendrum nocturnum is the type species of the genus Epidendrum of the Orchidaceae . The species occurs in Florida, Bahamas, West Indies, Belize, Central America to northern Brazil and the Guyanas. Epidendrum nocturnum is common in South Florida. It is usually autogamous and sometimes cleistogamous . The haploid chromosome number of E. nocturnum has been determined as n  20. The diploid chromosome number has been determined both as 2n  40 and as 2n  80. In 1984, the variety E. nocturnum var. guadeloupense was determined to have a diploid chromosome number of 2n  42-48. On November 7, 2010, Kew did not recognize the existence of this variety in its World Checklist of Selected Plant Families.  References  Reichenbach, H. G. . Orchides. In Mller, Karl . Walpers Annales Botanices Systematicae. Vol. 6. Berlin. p. 404.cite book: CS1 maint: location missing publisher  External links  Media related to Epidendrum nocturnum at Wikimedia Commons
SOS - The San Onofre Syndrome: Nuclear Power's Legacy is a documentary film that investigates the management of radioactive waste at the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station in California. The film highlights the stations proximity to the ocean, at only 108 feet from the rising sea, and addresses concerns about the oversight of radioactive materials at nuclear facilities in the United States and beyond. It was directed by James Heddle, Mary Beth Brangan, and Morgan Peterson. The film has been featured at several cinema festivals and has earned many accolades. It received the Grand Jury Award for Documentary Feature at the 2023 Awareness Film Festival in Los Angeles, California, as well as the Best Educational Documentary Award at the 2024 International Uranium Film Festival in Rio de Janeiro.  Synopsis  SOS: The San Onofre Syndrome delves into the efforts of Southern California residents to address safety concerns about the condition of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, whose final shutdown was in 2013. The film also examines the realization of a new threat: the presence of nuclear waste stored close to the sea, focusing on its long-term radioactivity. SOS is a documentary...
MESAT 1, MESAT1-OSCAR 122 or MO-122 is an American university and amateur radio satellite.  Mission  On 4 July 2024, MESAT 1 was launched on a Firefly Alpha launch vehicle from Vandenberg Space Force Base in California, United States. The amateur radio transponder became operational on 20 September 2024. On 2 October 2024, the OSCAR Numbers Coordinator assigned the designation MESAT1-OSCAR-122 or MO-122 to AMSAT-NA. MESAT 1, developed by the University of Maine, carries three experimental payloads for university research, a transmitter for commercial Globalstar, and a linear transponder provided by AMSAT for use by amateur radio operators worldwide. The three university experiments are: ALBEDO: This payload investigates the effects of albedo the fraction of solar radiation reflected back to space on local temperatures. IMAGER: A remote sensing instrument for imaging shallow coastal waters to determine water quality characteristics such as turbidity and phytoplankton concentration. HAB: A payload for investigating atmospheric influences on harmful algal blooms.  See also  OSCAR  References   External links  AMSAT North America What is MESAT1 Mainesat.org
Moyse Hyacinthe L'Ouverture was a Haitian military leader in Saint-Domingue during the Haitian Revolution. Originally allied with Toussaint L'Ouverture, Moyse grew disillusioned with the minimal labor reform and land distribution for black former slaves under the L'Ouverture administration and led a rebellion against Toussaint in 1801. Though executed, the insurrection he directed highlighted the failure of the Haitian Revolution in creating real revolutionary labor change and ignited the movement that drove L'Ouverture from office.  Early life, family  There are conflicting accounts of Moyse's family history. Trinidadian historian C. L. R. James reports Moyse had been stolen from Africa as a child as part of the trans-Atlantic slave trade and was originally part of the Arada nation, a coastal West African kingdom in what is now southern Benin. Others say he was born a Creole slave in 1773 on the Brda plantation near Haut-du-Cap, on the outskirts of present-day Cap-Hatien, Haiti. Moyse's ancestry with Toussaint L'Ouverture is contested as well. Some assert that Moyse's mother, Marie-Marthe, also known as Martine, was Toussaint's illegitimate...
Pennsylvania Route 533 is a 21.7-mile-long state highway located in Franklin and Cumberland counties in Pennsylvania. The western terminus is at State Route 4004 at a junction with Mountain Road, Valley Road, and Community Road in the community of Upper Strasburg in Letterkenny Township. The eastern terminus is at PA 233 in Newville. PA 533 heads east from Upper Strasburg as a two-lane undivided road through farmland, passing to the north of Letterkenny Army Depot before crossing PA 997 in Pleasant Hall. The route continues east and crosses PA 433 in Orrstown before reaching Shippensburg, where it reaches U.S. Route 11 . Here, PA 533 becomes concurrent with US 11 and intersects PA 696 in the downtown area and PA 174 upon leaving Shippensburg. PA 533 splits from US 11 and runs northeast through more agricultural areas before reaching Newville. The section of road between Upper Strasburg and Pleasant Hall was designated as part of PA 333 in 1928. PA 533 was designated in 1930 to run from PA 433 in Orrstown east to US 11 in Shippensburg. The same year, PA 633 was designated to run from Upper Strasburg east to PA 333 in Pleasant Hall after...
Alain Chesnais is a French computer scientist, entrepreneur, and community leader in computer graphics. He is considered a defining figure of the third generation of CGI pioneers, the group that brought 3D graphics into mainstream use. Chesnais is best known for his key role in developing Maya, one of the world's most influential 3D animation platforms. He served as President of ACM SIGGRAPH between 2002 and 2005, and as President of the Association for Computing Machinery from 2010 to 2012.  Early life and education  Alain Chesnais was born in Saint-Cloud, near Paris, in 1956. In 1958 his family emigrated to New York City. At age 11, encephalitis kept him from school for months. During his recovery, he immersed himself in mathematics and later joined his school's math team. At 14, he entered the National Science Foundation's Science Honors Program at Columbia University, while completing high school at the United Nations International School. He first learned computing on IBM360 mainframes, then honed his programming skills on a PDP-8 with his younger brother, Pascal Chesnais. In 1974, he returned to France to pursue higher education. In 1977, he entered...
Alert on LAN is a 1998, IBM- and Intel-developed technology that allows for remote management and control of networked PCs. AOL requires a Wake on LAN adapter.  Technical details  The main idea of AOL is to send warnings to remote administrators about different PC conditions using a LAN. These conditions include: System unplugged from power source System unplugged from network Chassis intrusion Processor removal System environmental errors High temperature Fan speed Voltage fluctuations Operating system errors System power-on errors System is hung Component failure Alert on LAN 2 extends AOL to allow active PC management, including: Remote system reboot upon report of a critical failure Repair Operating System Update BIOS image Perform other diagnostic procedures  See also  Wake-on-LAN Alert Standard Format Desktop and mobile Architecture for System Hardware  Additional resources  AOL Introduction from IBM
The Brat Pack were seven neophyte and two-term congressmen of the Philippine House of Representatives openly critical and attempted to impeach the then-Chief Justice Hilario Davide Jr. for misusing its Judiciary Development Funds . The group's name is an allusion to the same nickname, which known for young actors who frequently appeared together in teen-oriented coming-of-age films in the 1980s.  Background  Six young congressmen from the Nationalist People's Coalition led by Francis Chiz Escudero, and NPC founder's nephew Gilbert Teodoro, with the inclusion of Gilbert Remulla from Laban ng Demokratikong Pilipino filed an impeachment complaint against Chief Justice Hilario Davide Jr. for misusing Php 4-billion Judiciary Development Fund by spending it within his orders for purchase luxury cars, vacation houses and furnishings in the Supreme Court justices' office, instead of using for allowances of employees. By October 2003, they claimed that they have 87 signatories for impeachment complaint to be successful. But, House officials did not transmit the complaint to the Senate, and the earlier complaint they filed declared by the Supreme Court unconstitutional...
Barbie as the Island Princess is a 2007 animated musical film and the eleventh installment in the film series based on Mattel's Barbie toyline. The only entry animated by Mainframe Studios as Rainmaker Animation, the film stars the voice of Kelly Sheridan. The score was composed by Arnie Roth, with songs written by Megan Cavallari, Amy Powers and executive producer Rob Hudnut. It was released direct-to-DVD on September 18, 2007, with a television premiere five days later on Nickelodeon.  Plot  Sagi, a red panda, and Azul, an Indian peacock, live on a tropical island in the South Seas. One day, they discover a young girl washed up on shore after a storm and take her in. A chest among the debris washed up with her has the letters R-O on its broken nameplate the animals name the girl Ro, and she grows up playing with them and the Asian elephant Tika. However, she has no memory of her past aside from a lullaby she heard when she was an infant. Ten years later, Prince Antonio of Apollonia is out exploring the South Seas, and finds himself on Ro's island. Ro, now a young woman able to communicate with animals, saves him from crocodiles. Antonio invites her to come to Apollonia so she...
Blue Stahli is a Los Angeles-based American electronic rock project that was created by multi-instrumentalist Bret Autrey. He has released nine studio albums, five of which are instrumental based, and the other four are vocal based. He has also released 5 compilation albums, 25 singles and has released 7 music videos. Most singles have been released already onto albums, and there is currently one re-release.  Albums   Studio albums   Compilations   Extended plays   Singles  Although originally released under the name Blue Stahli, Never Dance Again and Sunset Neon are now labeled as both Blue Stahli and Sunset Neon songs. The track Metrocenter 84 originally released as a single in 2016 under Blue Stahli, however has since been relocated to his project, Sunset Neon. Both Never Dance Again and Metrocenter 84 were released on the Sunset Neon debut album Starlight.  Remixes and guest appearances   Music videos   References 
Jonas Wolcher is a Swedish director and producer best known for Die Zombiejger, Dragonetti: The Ruthless Contract Killer and Cannibal Fog.  Cannibal Fog  In 2014, Wolcher released Cannibal Fog, an art house horror film. The film was well received. Critic Karen Oughton declared the film to be a finely mixed, jangling masterpiece of humanity masquerading as merry mayhem.  References   External links  http:chud.comyan-birch-handsome-devil-interview http:www.jonaswolcher.com http:theatreofblood.setob-moter-jonas-wolcher-skapare-av-svensk-genrefilm http:jensdanielburman.comnoveller-att-lasajonas-wolchersthash.x6dsnBDp.dpbs http:frombeyond.sepodcast-special-intervju-med-jonas-wolcher http:screenanarchy.com201708swedish-cult-movie-maker-jonas-wolcher-goes-back-in-time-contrib.html
Eduardo Blanco was an Argentine footballer who played as midfielder. Blanco spent all his career in Rosario Central, where he played from 1914 to 1918, winning three national titles and seven regional titles with the club. Blanco debuted in Rosario Central in 1914, playing 69 matches and scoring 10 goals. Nevertheless, his career as player ended abruptly because of an injure to his left knee. Blanco became manager of Rosario Central in 1930. Apart from his club career, Blanco was also capped for the Argentina national team, being part of the team that competed in the 1917 South American Championship, where Argentina was runner-up.  Titles  Rosario Central Copa Ibarguren : 1915 Copa de Honor MCBA : 1916 Copa Jockey Club : 1916 Copa Nicasio Vila : 1914, 1915, 1916, 1917 Copa Damas de Caridad : 1914, 1915, 1916  References   External links  Eduardo Blanco at WorldFootball.net Eduardo Blanco at National-Football-Teams.com
A bird nest is a place where birds lay and hatch eggs. Bird's nest may also refer to:  Places  Nickname for the Beijing National Stadium The Bird's Nest , Newport, Rhode Island Bird's Nest  Cuisine  Bird's nest soup, a delicacy made from the salivary excretions of the swiftlet Bird's nest pudding, traditions of desserts said to resemble a bird's nest Seafood birdsnest, southern Chinese dish made of taro Another name for egg in the basket  Plants and fungi  Bird's nest plant, carrot Bird's nest fern, several species of ferns in the genus Asplenium Bird's nest orchid, Neottia nidus-avis Bird's nest fungi, several fungi in the order Nidulariales  Books  The Bird's Nest , by Shirley Jackson  Other  Birds Nest , a British Thoroughbred racehorse Bird's nest , a Hebrew children's poem by Hayim Nahman Bialik
Endemism is the state of a species being found only in a singular defined geographic location, such as an island, state, nation, country or other defined zone organisms that are indigenous to a place are not endemic to it if they are also found elsewhere. For example, the Cape sugarbird is found exclusively in southwestern South Africa and is therefore said to be endemic to that particular part of the world. An endemic species can also be referred to as an endemism or, in scientific literature, as an endemite. Endemism is an important concept in conservation biology for measuring biodiversity in a particular place and evaluating the risk of extinction for species. Endemism is also of interest in evolutionary biology, because it provides clues about how changes in the environment cause species to undergo range shifts potentially expanding their range into a larger area or becoming extirpated from an area they once lived, go extinct, or diversify into more species. The extreme opposite of an endemic species is one with a cosmopolitan distribution, having a global or widespread range. An uncommonly used alternative term for a species that is endemic is precinctive...
Star Birds is a 2025 factory simulation and resource management game based on asteroid mining developed and published by Toukana Interactive in collaboration with Kurzgesagt. The game released in early access on 10 September 2025.  Development  In March 2024, Toukana announced a video game collaboration with Kurzgesagt, a German animation studio. The game, originally codenamed Project Mango, was revealed as Star Birds on 9 June at the PC Gaming Show. The two studios first met in 2022 at Gamescom. The art style of Star Birds resembles Kurzgesagt's animation. The game was released in early access on Steam on 10 September 2025. The full release is expected to take between 6-12 months.  Gameplay  The protagonists of the game are the birds often found in Kurzgesagt videos. The birds are trying to expand an empire and make new resources. The game's theme is asteroid mining, and players gather resources from different asteroids to use in factories. Players construct networks to process resources in factories in order to complete quests. Asteroids are procedurally generated, and each asteroid only has a limited area to build, so players also have to manage space for efficiency. Much...
The rhea , also known as the and is a South American ratite flightless bird without a keel on the sternum bone of the order Rheiformes. Rheas are distantly related to the two African ostriches and Australia's emu the largest, second-largest and third-largest living ratites, respectively, with rheas placing just behind the emu in height and overall size. Most taxonomic authorities recognize two extant species: the greater, or American, rhea  and the lesser, or Darwin's, rhea . The International Union for Conservation of Nature classifies the puna rhea as another species instead of a subspecies of the lesser rhea. The IUCN currently rates the greater and puna rheas as near-threatened in their native ranges, while Darwin's rhea is of least concern, having recovered from past threats to its survival. In addition, the feral population of the greater rhea in Germany appears to be growing. However, control efforts are underway and seem to succeed in controlling the birds' population growth. Similarly to ostriches and emus, rheas are fairly popular livestock and pets, regularly kept and bred on farms, ranches, private parks, and...
Bird of Passage or Birds of Passage may refer to: Bird of passage, a migratory bird, or, figuratively, an itinerant person  Music  Birds of Passage , a musical project of Alicia Merz Birds of Passage , by Bel Canto, 1989 Birds of Passage, a 1987 album by Sadao Watanabe  Theatre and film  Birds of Passage , 2018 drama film Birds of Passage, 1983 play by Hanif Kureishi  Literature  The Bird of Passage, or, Flying Glimpses of Many Lands travelog by Isabella Frances Romer Birds of Passage: Migrant Labor and Industrial Societies nonfiction by Michael J. Piore Birds of Passage novel by Bernice Rubens Birds of Passage novel by Brian Castro Bird of Passage: Recollections of a Physicist autobiography by Rudolf Peierls Birds of Passage novel by Linda Leith Birds of Passage novel by Lou Drofenik  Other uses  Bird of Passage , a Voisin 1907 biplane owned by Lord Brabazon
Seabirds are birds that are adapted to life within the marine environment. While seabirds vary greatly in lifestyle, behaviour and physiology, they often exhibit striking convergent evolution, as the same environmental problems and feeding niches have resulted in similar adaptations. The first seabirds evolved in the Cretaceous period, while modern seabird families emerged in the Paleogene. Seabirds generally live longer, breed later and have fewer young than many other birds, but they invest a great deal of time in their young. Most species nest in colonies, varying in size from a few dozen birds to millions. Many species are famous for undertaking long annual migrations, crossing the equator or circumnavigating the Earth in some cases. They feed both at the ocean's surface and below it, and even on each other. Seabirds can be highly pelagic, coastal, or in some cases spend a part of the year away from the sea entirely. Seabirds and humans have a long history together: They have provided food to hunters, guided fishers to fishing stocks, and led sailors to land. Many species are currently threatened by human activities such as oil spills, fishing activity...
Simon Antony Bird is an English comedian, actor, director and producer. He is best known for playing Will McKenzie in the E4 comedy series The Inbetweeners , as well as its two films , and Adam Goodman in the Channel 4 comedy series Friday Night Dinner . He is set to appear in Shawn Levy's Star Wars: Starfighter .  Early life  Bird was born in Guildford, Surrey, as the third of four children of University of Surrey professors Graham and Heather Bird. Bird was educated at Cranmore School, West Horsley, the Royal Grammar School, Guildford, and Queens' College, Cambridge, where he read English. At Cambridge, Bird was the president of the Footlights, the university's sketch and theatrical group.  Career   Early comedy career  While studying for a Master of Arts degree in cultural and critical studies at Birkbeck College, Bird set up the sketch comedy group The House of Windsor with former Footlights contemporaries Joe Thomas who plays Simon Cooper in The Inbetweeners and Jonny Sweet. They performed at the Edinburgh Festival in 2007 and in 2008 with a show called The Meeting, described as a site-specific comedy...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 334 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Feedback neural networks are neural networks with the ability to provide bottom-up and top-down design feedback to their input or previous layers, based on their outputs or subsequent layers. This is notably used in large language models, specifically in reasoning language models . This process is designed to mimic self-assessment and internal deliberation, aiming to minimize errors and increase interpretability. This reflection is a form of test-time compute, where additional computational resources are used during inference.  Introduction  Traditional neural networks process inputs in a feedforward manner, generating outputs in a single pass. However, their limitations in handling complex tasks, and especially compositional ones, have led to the development of methods that simulate internal deliberation. Techniques such as chain-of-thought prompting encourage models to generate intermediate reasoning steps, thereby improving their performance in such tasks. The feedback can take place either after a full network pass and decoding to tokens, or continuously in latent space the last layer can be fed back to the first layer. In LLMs, special tokens...
DeepDream is a computer vision program created by Google engineer Alexander Mordvintsev that uses a convolutional neural network to find and enhance patterns in images via algorithmic pareidolia, thus creating a dream-like appearance reminiscent of a psychedelic experience in the deliberately overprocessed images. Google's program popularized the term dreaming to refer to the generation of images that produce desired activations in a trained deep network, and the term now refers to a collection of related approaches.  History  The DeepDream software, originated in a deep convolutional network codenamed Inception after the film of the same name, was developed for the ImageNet Large-Scale Visual Recognition Challenge in 2014 and released in July 2015. The dreaming idea and name became popular on the Internet in 2015 thanks to Google's DeepDream program. The idea dates from early in the history of neural networks, and similar methods have been used to synthesize visual textures. Related visualization ideas were developed by several research groups. After Google published their techniques and made their code open-source, a number of tools...
A physical neural network is a type of artificial neural network in which an electrically adjustable material is used to emulate the function of a neural synapse or a higher-order neuron model. Physical neural network is used to emphasize the reliance on physical hardware used to emulate neurons as opposed to software-based approaches. More generally the term is applicable to other artificial neural networks in which a memristor or other electrically adjustable resistance material is used to emulate a neural synapse.  Types of physical neural networks   ADALINE  In the 1960s Bernard Widrow and Ted Hoff developed ADALINE which used electrochemical cells called memistors to emulate synapses of an artificial neuron. The memistors were implemented as 3-terminal devices operating based on the reversible electroplating of copper such that the resistance between two of the terminals is controlled by the integral of the current applied via the third terminal. The ADALINE circuitry was briefly commercialized by the Memistor Corporation in the 1960s enabling some applications in pattern recognition. However, since the memistors...
A random neural network is a mathematical representation of an interconnected network of neurons or cells which exchange spiking signals. It was invented by Erol Gelenbe and is linked to the G-network model of queueing networks which Erol Gelenbe also invented, and with his Gene Regulatory Network models. In this model, each neuronal cell state is represented by an integer whose value rises when the cell receives an excitatory spike and drops when it receives an inhibitory spike. The spikes can originate outside the network itself, or they can come from other cells in the networks. Cells whose internal excitatory state has a positive value are allowed to send out spikes of either kind to other cells in the network according to specific cell-dependent spiking rates. The model has a mathematical solution in steady-state which provides the joint probability distribution of the network in terms of the individual probabilities that each cell is excited and able to send out spikes. Computing this solution is based on solving a set of non-linear algebraic equations whose parameters are related to the spiking rates of individual cells and their connectivity to other cells, as well as...
In computer science and machine learning, Cellular Neural Networks or Cellular Nonlinear Networks are a parallel computing paradigm similar to neural networks, with the difference that communication is allowed between neighbouring units only. Typical applications include image processing, analyzing 3D surfaces, solving partial differential equations, reducing non-visual problems to geometric maps, modelling biological vision and other sensory-motor organs. CNN is not to be confused with convolutional neural networks .  CNN architecture  Due to their number and variety of architectures, it is difficult to give a precise definition for a CNN processor. From an architecture standpoint, CNN processors are a system of finite, fixed-number, fixed-location, fixed-topology, locally interconnected, multiple-input, single-output, nonlinear processing units. The nonlinear processing units are often referred to as neurons or cells. Mathematically, each cell can be modeled as a dissipative, nonlinear dynamical system where information is encoded via its initial state, inputs and variables used to define its behavior. Dynamics are usually continuous,...
A neural processing unit , also known as an AI accelerator or deep learning processor, is a class of specialized hardware accelerator or computer system designed to accelerate artificial intelligence and machine learning applications, including artificial neural networks and computer vision. NPU can be standalone, a part of a central processing unit or a part of a graphics processing unit .  History  An early use of the term neural processing unit to refer to a dedicated neural-network accelerator appeared in the 2012 paper Neural Acceleration for General-Purpose Approximate Programs, which described an NPU architecture for accelerating approximate programs.  Use  NPU's purpose is either to efficiently execute already trained AI models like large language models for inference, or to train AI models. NPUs can be more efficient in terms of speed or power consumption. NPU applications include algorithms for robotics, Internet of things, and data-intensive or sensor-driven tasks. They are often manycore or spatial designs and focus on low-precision arithmetic, novel dataflow architectures, or in-memory computing capability. As of 2024, a widely used...
A recursive neural network is a kind of deep neural network created by applying the same set of weights recursively over a structured input, to produce a structured prediction over variable-size input structures, or a scalar prediction on it, by traversing a given structure in topological order. These networks were first introduced to learn distributed representations of structure , but have been successful in multiple applications, for instance in learning sequence and tree structures in natural language processing mainly continuous representations of phrases and sentences based on word embeddings.  Architectures   Basic  In the simplest architecture, nodes are combined into parents using a weight matrix and a non-linearity such as the tanh displaystyle tanh  hyperbolic function. If c 1 displaystyle c1 and c 2 displaystyle c2 are...
Neural architecture search is a technique for automating the design of artificial neural networks , a widely used model in the field of machine learning. NAS has been used to design networks that are on par with or outperform hand-designed architectures. Methods for NAS can be categorized according to the search space, search strategy and performance estimation strategy used: The search space defines the type of ANN that can be designed and optimized. The search strategy defines the approach used to explore the search space. The performance estimation strategy evaluates the performance of a possible ANN from its design . NAS is closely related to hyperparameter optimization and meta-learning and is a subfield of automated machine learning .  Reinforcement learning  Reinforcement learning can underpin a NAS search strategy. Barret Zoph and Quoc Viet Le applied NAS with RL targeting the CIFAR-10 dataset and achieved a network architecture that rivals the best manually-designed architecture for accuracy, with an error rate of 3.65, 0.09 percent better and 1.05x faster than a related hand-designed model. On the Penn Treebank...
A Siamese neural network is an artificial neural network that uses the same weights while working in tandem on two different input vectors to compute comparable output vectors. Often one of the output vectors is precomputed, thus forming a baseline against which the other output vector is compared. This is similar to comparing fingerprints but can be described more technically as a distance function for locality-sensitive hashing. It is possible to build an architecture that is functionally similar to a twin network but implements a slightly different function. This is typically used for comparing similar instances in different type sets. Uses of similarity measures where a twin network might be used are such things as recognizing handwritten checks, automatic detection of faces in camera images, and matching text queries with indexed documents. The perhaps most well-known application of twin networks are face recognition, where known images of people are precomputed and compared to an image from a turnstile or similar. It is not obvious at first, but there are two slightly different problems. One is recognizing a person among a large number...
An optical neural network is a physical implementation of an artificial neural network with optical components. Early optical neural networks used a photorefractive Volume hologram to interconnect arrays of input neurons to arrays of output with synaptic weights in proportion to the multiplexed hologram's strength. Volume holograms were further multiplexed using spectral hole burning to add one dimension of wavelength to space to achieve four dimensional interconnects of two dimensional arrays of neural inputs and outputs. This research led to extensive research on alternative methods using the strength of the optical interconnect for implementing neuronal communications. Some artificial neural networks that have been implemented as optical neural networks include the Hopfield neural network and the Kohonen self-organizing map with liquid crystal spatial light modulators Optical neural networks can also be based on the principles of neuromorphic engineering, creating neuromorphic photonic systems. Typically, these systems encode information in the networks using spikes, mimicking the functionality of spiking neural networks in optical and photonic hardware. Photonic devices that...
The following is a list of notable deaths in July 1987. Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence: Name, age, country of citizenship at birth, subsequent country of citizenship , reason for notability, cause of death , and reference.  July 1987   1  Mohamed Abou Habaga, 66, Egyptian Olympic footballer . Kurt Lamm, 68, German-born American footballer, coach and manager, heart attack. Jerry Livingston, 78, American songwriter and dance orchestra pianist, heart condition. Edward Nesfield, 87, English cricketer. Bridget Sequeira, 81, Pakistani-Indian religious sister. Ted Sherman, 84, Australian rules footballer. Snakefinger, 38, English musician, singer and songwriter , heart attack. Soetran, 66, Indonesian military officer and politician, Governor of Irian Jaya, liver cancer.  2  iril Ban, 76, Croatian Olympic rower . Michael Bennett, 44, American theatre director, writer and dancer, lymphoma. Bruce Boehler, 69, American basketball player. Vclav ern, 82, Czech literary scholar, writer and philosopher. Lennart Dozzi,...
Amalia Kssner Coudert was an American known for her portrait miniatures of prominent American and European figures of the late 19th and early 20th century. From Terre Haute, Indiana, subjects of her paintings include actresses Lillian Russell and Marie Tempest wealthy socialites Caroline Schermerhorn Astor, Emily Havemeyer  members of Britain's royal family and London society such as King Edward VII, Alice Keppel, and Consuelo Vanderbilt, the Duchess of Marlborough as well as members of the Russian royal family, including Czar Nicholas II and his wife, Czarina Alexandra Feodorovna and wealthy industrialists such as Cecil Rhodes.  Early life and education  Amalia Amalie Kssner was born on March 26, 1863, in Crawfordsville, Indiana, to German immigrants, Lorenz and Emilie Kssner. The family, including Amalia's older siblings, Albert and Louisa, lived briefly in Greencastle, Indiana, before moving to Terre Haute, Indiana, on February 24, 1864. At Terre Haute, Lorenze Kssner ran the Palace of Music, a musical instrument repair shop at 213 Ohio Street. In 1867, after a fire destroyed the building, the...
Navid Nasseri is a professional footballer. Born in England, he has represented Iran at youth level.  Club career  Nasseri played for the Manchester United Academy until the age of 16. He subsequently had stints with the academies of Crewe Alexandra, Blackburn Rovers and Bury. Nasseri joined Birmingham City on a one-year deal in July 2014 and was assigned to the development squad. After making eight appearances for the side, his contract was terminated by mutual consent. On 28 October 2016, Nasseri signed for Macclesfield Town. In the winter of 2017, he trialled with Swedish clubs AIK and GIF Sundsvall. In March 2017, he joined Syrianska in the same country. On 26 January 2018, Nasseri signed with League One club Gillingham for the remainder of the season. He made his professional debut on 10 March, coming on as a late substitute in a 3-1 away win against Portsmouth. He scored a goal in his first start for the club on 29 March 2018 against MK Dons. He signed a one-year deal with the club in May 2018, but he made just four further league appearances for the club before his contract was cancelled by mutual consent in January 2019. After an...
Gaelcholiste Chill Dara is an Irish language secondary level school in Naas, County Kildare, in Ireland. The school, which welcomed its first pupils in September 2003, was originally based in Newbridge, before moving to a premises at The Curragh. It has been at its current site, in Naas, since 2010. The school's patron is An Foras Ptrnachta. As of 2018, there were approximately 340 pupils attending Gael-Choliste Chill Dara.  References   External links  Official website
Vidonci pronounced  Hungarian: Vidorlak is a village in the Municipality of Grad in the Prekmurje region of northeastern Slovenia. There is a small chapel in the settlement dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. It was built in 1888.  References   External links  Vidonci on Geopedia
The 2011-12 NBL Canada season was the inaugural season of the National Basketball League of Canada.  Teams   Map of teams   Draft  The 2011 NBL Canada Draft was held August 21, 2011. The Oshawa Power had the first pick and selected shooting guard Morgan Lewis.  Regular season  The regular season began October 29, 2011 with the Quebec Kebs defeating the Moncton Miracles 102-97.  Standings   Playoffs   Semifinals  London Lightning vs. Saint John Mill Rats Halifax Rainmen vs. Quebec Kebs  Finals   References 
Municipal elections were held in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on January 7, 1901. In the mayoral election, Oliver Aiken Howland was elected, defeating Alderman Frank S. Spence as well as incumbent Mayor Ernest A. Macdonald, who came in third place, and former mayor John Shaw, who came in fourth place. In the council elections, seventeen incumbent alderman were returned and five were defeated. Shortly after the election, Mayor Howland called off plans by the city to put into public ownership the privately owned municipal gasworks company, despite the plan having been approved in the plebiscite by a large majority.  Toronto mayor  Results Oliver Aiken Howland - 12,300 Alderman Frank S. Spence - 8,076 Ernest A. Macdonald - 3,354 John Shaw - 990 Charles Christopher Woodley - 224 Source:  Board of Control  The Toronto Board of Control was elected by Toronto City Council from among its members. The number of Controllers was increased from three to four in the previous year, in addition to the Mayor who chairs the Board. At the first council meeting following the general election, four Conservatives were chosen. Aldermen Sheppard, Frame and Lamb were chosen on the first ballot...
Acho was a Hungarian clergyman in the 13th century, who served as vice-chancellor of the royal court from 1279 to 1280 and in 1281.  Career  Acho was appointed vice-chancellor in December 1279, succeeding the controversial prelate Nicholas Kn. His term coincides with the harsh dispute between King Ladislaus IV and the papal legate Philip III, Bishop of Fermo. Acho is the only known vice-chancellor in the 13th century, who did not hold any ecclesiastical benefice simultaneously with his service. Historian Dniel Bcsatyai considered Acho of low-born was a strong confidant of the monarch, and Philip successfully prevented him from obtaining benefice. Ladislaus' double seal from 1279 with the sigillum A reflects Acho's activity as vice-chancellor. Following the temporary reconciliation of Ladislaus and Philip in the spring of 1280, Acho was replaced by Bartholomew, son of Bot in August 1280. Following the dismissal of Palatine Finta Aba and his subsequent insurgency in the spring of 1281, Acho was reinstated as vice-chancellor he is first mentioned in this capacity in April 1281. He held the office at least until September 1281. He was succeeded...
The Vulgate is a late-4th-century Latin translation of the Bible. It is largely the work of Saint Jerome, who was commissioned by Pope Damasus I in 382 to revise the Vetus Latina Gospels used by the Roman Church. Later, of his own initiative, Jerome extended this work of revision and translation to include most of the books of the Bible. The Vulgate was progressively adopted as the Bible text within the Western Church. Over succeeding centuries, it eventually eclipsed the Vetus Latina texts. By the 13th century it had taken over from the former version the designation versio vulgata or vulgata for short. The Vulgate also contains some Vetus Latina translations that Jerome did not work on. The Catholic Church affirmed the Vulgate as its official Latin Bible at the Council of Trent , though there was no single authoritative edition of the book in any language at that time. Eventually an official edition of the Vulgate was produced, to be promulgated among the Catholic Church as the Sixtine Vulgate , then as the Clementine Vulgate , and then as the Nova Vulgata . The Vulgate is still used in the Latin Church. The Clementine...
Ina Paha is the seventh episode of the fifth season of Hawaii Five-0. It is also the one hundredth episode of the series overall and aired on November 7, 2014 on CBS. The episode was written by Peter M. Lenkov and was directed by Larry Teng. In the episode Steve is kidnapped and drugged by Wo Fat and McGarrett imagines what would've happened had the team never gotten together. The episode featured all current main cast members at the time, as well as current and past recurring cast members from the series.  Plot   Show universe  McGarrett wakes up in an empty white room with a locked door and, immediately, begins calling for help with no success. Following a sting operation using Sang Min as a confidential informant to lock up a human trafficker, Danny receives a call. The Five-0 team responds and find McGarrett's car empty, with blood inside and tire tracks leading away from the vehicle, then realizing that McGarrett has been kidnapped. A screen then turns on in the room McGarrett is trapped in, and a home video from his childhood plays. Following this, the room is filed with gas and an unknown person in a gas mask begins entering the room as...
Katerina Atanassova has been the Senior Curator of Canadian Art at the National Gallery of Canada since 2014. She is an art historian and museum administrator of diverse interests, from medieval to contemporary Canadian art. At the National Gallery of Canada, she is responsible for developing the national collections of Canadian painting, sculpture, prints and drawings, and decorative arts, dating up to 1980, and she has re-installed the permanent collection of Canadian art as well as curating exhibitions.  Career  Atanossova was born in Sofia, Bulgaria and received her B.A. in History and Art from the University of Sofia. She came to Canada in 1990. She holds an M.A. in Medieval Studies from the University of Toronto . She was a Ph.D. candidate and adjunct instructor at York University, Department of Visual Arts and Culture, when she was hired by the Frederick Horsman Varley Art Gallery of Markham in Unionville in 1999 as the educationprogram co-ordinator and as Collection curator. Her exhibitions for the Varley Art Gallery included William Berczy - man of enlightenment  Towards the Spiritual in Canadian Art and F.H. Varley: Portraits into the Light...
Pelargonium grossularioides is a species of geranium known by the common names gooseberry geranium and coconut geranium. It grows primarily in the subtropical biome and is native to Cape Provinces, Free State , KwaZulu-Natal, Mozambique, and Tristan da Cunha. It is known in coastal California, Kenya, and parts of India as an introduced species. It is sometimes grown as a garden geranium. Its common names come from the resemblance of the leaves to those of gooseberry and from the coconut scent of the leaves. An annual or occasionally perennial, it has sparse, short hairs and a prostrate or sprawling habit. The leaves are round to broadly ovate, lobed, with the edges coarsely toothed. The inflorescence is an umbel of 3 to 50 flowers in pink to rose-purple. Each flower has five narrow petals no more than 6 millimeters long.  References   External links  Jepson Manual Treatment PlantZAfrica.com CalPhotos gallery UC Berkeley
The Olomouc Astronomical Clock is part of the northern wall of the town hall of Olomouc, Czech Republic. The astronomical clock was built in the 15th century and has been reconstructed several times. The current appearance is from 1955 in the socialist realism style. It is one of the few heliocentric clocks in the world.  Physical description  The clock is located on the Northeastern facade of the town hall, the arched alcove is approximately 14 meters high. The lower dial represents the earthly sphere and indicates minute, hour, day, month, year and phase of the moon. The calendar at the bottom of the clock indicates the Czech name days and important days of the Communist regime, such as the birthdays of Stalin and Gottwald. The upper dial represents the heavenly sphere and shows a star map, the Sun, Earth and planets against a background of the twelve houses of the zodiac. Noon is announced by a brass cockrel, and animated figurines of various proletariat figures who scroll past the windows of the clock for seven minutes. Professions represented include a miner, baker, clerk, volleyball player, auto mechanic and factory worker. The main facade is surrounded...
The Fanzor protein is a eukaryotic, RNA-guided DNA endonuclease, which means it is a type of DNA cutting enzyme that uses RNA to target genes of interest. In bacteria, RNA-guided DNA endonuclease systems, such as the CRISPRCas system, serve as an immune system to prevent infection by cutting viral genetic material. Currently, CRISPRCas9-mediated's DNA cleavage has extensive application in biological research, and wide-reaching medical potential in human gene editing. Fanzor belongs to the OMEGA system. Evolutionarily, it shares a common ancestor, OMEGA TnpB, with the CRISPRCas12 system. Due to the shared ancestry between the OMEGA system and the CRISPR system, the protein structure and DNA cleavage function of Fanzor and Cas12 remain largely conserved. Combined with the widespread presence of Fanzor across the diverse genomes of different eukaryotic species, this raises the possibility of OMEGA Fanzor being an alternative to CRISPRCas system with better efficiency and compatibility in other complex eukaryotic organisms, such as mammals.  Fanzor as a potential human genome editor  Due to its eukaryotic origin, the OMEGA Fanzor system may have some advantages over the better...
Stefan Edberg was the defending champion. Edberg successfully defended his title, defeating Jonas Svensson 7-5, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 in the final.  Seeds   Draw  Key  Finals   Top half   Section 1   Section 2   Bottom half   Section 3   Section 4   References  Main Draw
Paul Kelemba , is a Kenyan self-taught comic strip artist and caricaturist. He uses Maddo as a pen-name which was inspired by Mad Magazine of New-York.  Career  After completing his education, Paul Kelemba started off at a local advertising agency in Mombasa and later worked for various Kenyan magazines, including Coastweek and Daily Nation, as an illustrator and cartoonist through the 1980s and 90s. . Since 1992, Maddo is the author of the weekly satyrical page It's a Madd Madd World in The Standard . In 2009, he compiled his It's a Madd Madd World features into three volumes during a one-month residency at the Rockefeller Foundation Bellagio Center in Italy. His international recognition includes residencies in Japan, Estonia and Germany. Maddo is the recipient of the 2015 CNN Multi-Choice African Journalist Awards. Maddo is associate producer at Buni Media Ltd, the producer of The YZ Show that was inspired by the French programme Les Guignols. He is also the chairman of Ketebul Music, a pilot music production organisation in Kenya run by Tabu Osusa.  References 
The Butler BlueSox were a collegiate summer baseball team based in Butler, Pennsylvania, in the United States. They were members of the Tri-State Collegiate League and formerly a member of the East Division of the summer collegiate Prospect League. The team will play its 2025 season at Highlands High School Field in Natrona Heights, Pennsylvania. New named to be announced soon.  History  The BlueSox were formed by former Pennsylvania State Representative Leo Trich, Jr. in Washington, Pennsylvania in 2006 as part of the Tri-State Collegiate Baseball League. After renovations were completed at Kelly Automotive Park in 2008, Trich decided to move the Washington BlueSox to Butler as a founding member of the Prospect League. The team officially became part of the league in December 2008. The team went 28-26 during their 2009 inaugural season in Butler. In 2011 Leo Trich sold his ownership of the team to a group of five local business partners to run the team. MLB pitcher, and Butler native Matt Clement is one of the owners. In late 2011, an agreement was reached to keep the BlueSox in Butler through the 2013 season.  2012 season  For the 2012 season, four additional...
Up on the Roof is a musical by Simon Moore and Jane Prowse, which follows a decade in the lives of five friends who form an a cappella singing group at university. The show was first staged in 1987 in London and starred Mark McGann and Gary Olsen, and it was nominated for an Olivier Award for Best Musical and McGann and Olsen were nominated for best actor in a musical. It was revived at the Queen's Theatre, Hornchurch in May and June 2006. The show was made into a 1997 UK TV film starring Adrian Lester and directed by Simon Moore. The film was broadcast on ITV on October 31, 1997. Time Out gave the TV film a negative rating.  References   External links  Up on the Roof at IMDb
Energy independence is the ability of a country to exercise independence or autarky over their energy resources, energy supply andor energy generation by the energy industry. Energy dependence, in general, refers to mankind's general dependence on either primary or secondary energy for energy consumption . In a narrower sense, it may describe the dependence of one country on energy resources from another country. Energy dependency shows the extent to which an economy relies upon imports in order to meet its energy needs. The indicator is calculated as net imports divided by the sum of gross inland energy consumption plus bunkers. Energy dependence has been identified as one of several factors energy sources diversification, energy suppliers diversification, energy sources fungibility, energy transport, market liquidity, energy resources, political stability, energy intensity, GDP negatively contributing to energy security. Generally, a higher level of energy dependence is associated with higher risk, because of the possible interference of trade regulations, international armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, etc. However, achieving total energy...
Christopher Allen Wright is an American businessman and government official serving as the 17th United States secretary of energy since February 2025. Before leading the U.S. Department of Energy, Wright served as the CEO of Liberty Energy, North America's second largest hydraulic fracturing company, and served on the boards of Oklo Inc., a nuclear technology company, and EM Royalty Corp., a Canadian mineral rights and mining rights royalty payment company. On November 16, 2024, President-elect Donald Trump announced Wright as his nominee for U.S. secretary of energy. Wright's nomination was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on February 3, 2025, with a 59-38 vote. Wright was sworn in as the secretary of energy on February 3, 2025. As secretary, he has overseen rollbacks of climate change mitigation policies and promoted fossil fuel use.  Early life and education  Chris Wright was born on January 15, 1965, in a family of Scottish descent and grew up in Colorado. He earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and a master's degree in electrical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . He was a graduate student in electrical engineering...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 344 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Julia is a dynamic general-purpose programming language. As a high-level language, distinctive aspects of Julia's design include a type system with parametric polymorphism, the use of multiple dispatch as a core programming paradigm, just-in-time compilation and a parallel garbage collection implementation. Notably, Julia does not support classes with encapsulated methods but instead relies on the types of all of a function's arguments to determine which method will be called. By default, Julia is run similarly to scripting languages, using its runtime, and allows for interactions, but Julia programs can also be compiled to small binary standalone executables , with e.g. the JuliaC.jl compiler. Julia programs can reuse libraries from other languages, and vice versa. Julia has interoperability with C, C, Fortran, Rust, Python, and R. Additionally, some Julia packages have bindings to be used from Python and R as libraries. Julia is supported by programmer tools like IDEs and by notebooks like Pluto.jl, Jupyter, and since 2025, Google Colab officially supports Julia natively. Julia is sometimes used in embedded systems e.g. has been...
Cangjie is a high-level, statically typed, general-purpose, multi-paradigm, compiled imperative and declarative programming language developed by Huawei. It was first released on June 21, 2024, as part of developer beta recruitment, for HarmonyOS NET app development on the preview version of the HarmonyOS operating system. It is also referred to as CangjieLang or CJ, but its proper name is Cangjie.  Etymology  Cangjie is a legendary figure in Chinese folklore credited with first inventing Chinese characters. The Cangjie input method was similarly named after him. Huawei has released other products using names of Chinese mythological creatures, such as the Huawei Kirin mobile chipset, named after the qilin creature .  History  Development of Cangjie was started in 2019, by inyu Feng, who is a professor at the Department of Computer Science and Technology of Nanjing University. He had assistance from Tianjin University and Beihang University in its initial five years of development, with the eventual collaboration of many other software programmers and engineers at Huawei, during the development of HarmonyOS's initial...
Non-English-based programming languages are programming languages that do not use keywords taken from or inspired by English vocabulary.  Prevalence of English-based programming languages  The use of the English language in the inspiration for the choice of elements, in particular for reserved words in computer programming languages and code libraries, represents a significant trend in the history of language design. According to the HOPL online database of languages, out of the 8,500 programming languages recorded, roughly 2,400 of them were developed in the United States, 600 in the United Kingdom, 160 in Canada, and 75 in Australia. Thus, over a third of all programming languages have been developed in countries where English is the primary language. This does not account for the usage share of each programming language, situations where a language was developed in a non-English-speaking country but used English to appeal to an international audience see the case of Python from the Netherlands, Ruby from Japan, and Lua from Brazil, and situations where it was based on another programming language which used English.  International programming languages  The...
Racket is a general-purpose, multi-paradigm programming language. The Racket language is a modern dialect of Lisp and a descendant of Scheme. It is designed as a platform for programming language design and implementation. In addition to the core Racket language, Racket is also used to refer to the family of programming languages and set of tools supporting development on and with Racket. Racket is also used for scripting, computer science education, and research. The Racket platform provides an implementation of the Racket language, including a runtime system, libraries, and compiler supporting several compiler modes: machine code, cross-platform, interpreted, and just-in-time compilation along with the DrRacket integrated development environment written in Racket. Racket is used by the ProgramByDesign outreach program, which aims to turn computer science into an indispensable part of the liberal arts curriculum. The core Racket language is known for its extensive macro system which enables creating embedded and domain-specific languages, language constructs such as classes or modules, and separate dialects of Racket with different semantics. The platform distribution...
In computer software, a general-purpose programming language is a programming language for building software in a wide variety of application domains. Conversely, a domain-specific programming language is used within a specific area. For example, Python is a GPL, while SQL is a DSL for querying relational databases.  History  Early programming languages were designed for scientific computing or commercial data processing, as was computer hardware. Scientific languages such as Fortran and Algol supported floating-point calculations and multidimensional arrays, while business languages such as COBOL supported fixed-field file formats and data records. Much less widely used were specialized languages such as IPL-V and LISP for symbolic list processing COMIT for string manipulation APT for numerically controlled machines. Systems programming requiring pointer manipulation was typically done in assembly language, though JOVIAL was used for some military applications. IBM's System360, announced in 1964, was designed as a unified hardware architecture supporting both scientific and commercial applications, and IBM developed PLI for it as a single...
Luau is an open-source scripting language derived from Lua 5.1. Developed by Roblox Corporation, it serves as the primary scripting language for the Roblox platform. Luau adds gradual typing, performance improvements, and sandboxing features to the base Lua language while maintaining backward compatibility with Lua 5.1. The language was released to Roblox developers in August 2019 and became open source under the MIT License in November 2021. Since its open-source release, Luau has been adopted by several video game developers outside of Roblox, including Remedy Entertainment for Alan Wake 2, Digital Extremes for Warframe, and Giants Software for Farming Simulator 2025.  History  Roblox originally used a modified version of Lua 5.1 as its scripting language. As the platform grew, developers began creating larger and more complex projects. The engineering team identified two main problems with standard Lua at this scale: the lack of a type system made error detection difficult, and the standard Lua interpreter had performance limitations. The team considered adopting LuaJIT, a just-in-time compiler implementation of Lua known for high performance. However, LuaJIT had limited...
Dart is a programming language designed by Lars Bak and Kasper Lund and developed by Google. It can be used to develop web and mobile apps as well as server and desktop applications. Dart is an object-oriented, class-based, garbage-collected language with C-style syntax. It can compile to machine code, JavaScript, or WebAssembly. It supports interfaces, mixins, abstract classes, reified generics and type inference. The latest version of Dart is 3.13.4 .  History  Dart was unveiled at the GOTO conference in Aarhus, Denmark, October 10-12, 2011. Lars Bak and Kasper Lund founded the project. Dart 1.0 was released on November 14, 2013. Dart had a mixed reception at first. Some criticized the Dart initiative for fragmenting the web because of plans to include a Dart VM in Chrome. Those plans were dropped in 2015 with the Dart 1.9 release. Focus changed to compiling Dart code to JavaScript. Dart 2.0 was released in August 2018 with language changes including a type system. In November 2019, Dart 2.6 introduced a new extension, dart2native. This extended native compilation to the Linux, macOS, and Windows desktop platforms. Earlier developers could create new tools using only Android...
Karel is an educational programming language for beginners, created by Richard E. Pattis in his book Karel The Robot: A Gentle Introduction to the Art of Programming. Pattis used the language in his courses at Stanford University, California. The language is named after Karel apek, a Czech writer who introduced the word robot in his play R.U.R.  Principles  A program in Karel is used to control a simple robot named Karel that lives in an environment consisting of a grid of streets and avenues . Karel understands five basic instructions: move Karel moves by one square in the direction he is facing, turnLeft , putBeeper Karel puts a beeper on the square he is standing at, pickBeeper Karel lifts a beeper off the square he is standing at, and turnoff Karel switches himself off, the program ends. Karel can also perform boolean queries about his immediate environment, asking whether there is a beeper where he is standing, whether there are barriers next to him, and about the direction he is facing. A programmer can create additional instructions by defining them in terms of the five basic instructions, and by using conditional control...
PLI Programming Language One, pronounced and sometimes written PL1 is a procedural, imperative computer programming language initially developed by IBM. It is designed for scientific, engineering, business and system programming. It has been in continuous use by academic, commercial and industrial organizations since it was introduced in the 1960s. A PLI American National Standards Institute technical standard, 3.53-1976, was published in 1976. PLI's main domains are data processing, numerical computation, scientific computing, and system programming. It supports recursion, structured programming, linked data structure handling, fixed-point, floating-point, complex, character string handling, and bit string handling. The language syntax is English-like and suited for describing complex data formats with a wide set of functions available to verify and manipulate them.  Early history  In the 1950s and early 1960s, business and scientific users programmed using different programming languages, usually on different computer hardware. Business users were moving from Autocoders via COMTRAN to COBOL, while scientific users programmed in Fortran, ALGOL, GEORGE, and others...
A thrust curve, sometimes known as a performance curve or thrust profile, is a graph of the thrust of an engine or motor, with respect to time. Most engines do not produce linear thrust thrust which increases at a constant rate with time. Instead, they produce a curve of some type, where thrust will slowly rise to a peak, and then fall, or tail off. Rocket engines, particularly solid-fuel rocket engines, produce very consistent thrust curves, making this a useful metric for judging their performance. This information is vital when designing spacecraft, particularly multistage spacecraft, since it may be advantageous to separate the engine and its associated fuel tanks and machinery before the fuel has been fully exhausted. This is because even though the engine is still producing thrust during the tail off phase, it may be so little that the spacecraft would be more efficient without it.  Notes 
Catherine Amusugut is a Ugandan geologist and corporate executive, who serves as a Geoscience Manager at the Uganda National Oil Company , since August 2017. Before that, from January 2007 until August 2017, she served as a Geologist at the Petroleum Exploration and Production Department , in the Uganda Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development.  Background and education  She was educated at Makerere University, Uganda's largest and oldest public university, where she graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Geology and Chemistry. Later, in 2010, she obtained a Master of Science in Petroleum Geoscience, from the University of Aberdeen, in Scotland.  Career  Amusugut joined the PEPD in January 2007, beginning as Geologist-trainee, while she was still an undergraduate at Makerere University. Following her graduation with a BSc degree in geology, she was hired full-time as a geologist. Her responsibilities included reviewing the work plans submitted by the oil companies to make sure the plans are efficient and geologically, environmentally and commercially viable. If all the criteria are met, permission to proceed with drilling is granted. In this capacity, she interacted...
Sanbeiji simplified Chinese:  traditional Chinese:  pinyin: snbij Wade-Giles: San1-pei1 chi1 Peh-e-j: sam-poe-ke lit. 'three-cup chicken' is a popular chicken dish in Chinese cuisine and one of the most iconic dishes of Jiangxi cuisine. The dish originates from the Jiangxi province of southern China, and is a specialty of Ningdu where the population are Hakka. The dish has become especially popular in Taiwan, being introduced to the island by the Hakka people. It is also served as a postpartum confinement food by the Chinese community of Malaysia. The Jiangxi style has a complex flavor and is spicy, while the Taiwan variant has a more simplistic flavor and is non-spicy.  Origins  There are several versions for the origins of sanbeiji. These stories often involve a cook who placed three cups of sauces into an earthenware pot and simmered it for a long time. One version is that of Wen Tianxiang, a national hero and Jiangxi native during the Song dynasty. Wen was captured by the invading Yuan armies of Kublai Khan and tortured for four years during his imprisonment. It was during this time that a sympathetic prison warden cooked the dish for him using these limited...
Kirovo is a rural locality in Rassvetovsky Selsoviet, Davlekanovsky District, Bashkortostan, Russia. The population was 299 as of 2010. There are 5 streets.  Geography  Kirovo is located 12 km west of Davlekanovo by road. Komsomolsky is the nearest rural locality.  References 
The 1987-88 SMU Mustangs men's basketball team represented Southern Methodist University during the 1987-88 men's college basketball season. There, they defeated Notre Dame to advance to the Second Round. In the Second Round, they lost to the 2 seed Duke, 94-79.  Roster   Schedule   References 
Hardyville is a small unincorporated community and census-designated place in Hart County, Kentucky, United States, located east of Munfordville on U.S. Route 31E. As of the 2010 census it had a population of 156. In the 2020 United States Census the population was 180. A post office was established in the community in 1868. It was named in honor of a series of popular stump speeches given at the crossroads during the 1850s by local politician James Greene Hardy, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky from 1855 to 1856.  Demographics   References 
Kinderkl is a rural locality in Kukmara District, Tatarstan. The population was 398 as of 2010. Kinderkl is located 4 km from Kukmara, district's administrative centre, and 148 km from azan, republic's capital, by road. The village was established in 17th century. There are 10 streets in the village.  References   External links  . tatarica.org . Retrieved 2023-06-01.
Manifold Data Mining Inc. is a Canadian company specializing in consumer data products, analytics, and predictive modeling. As a data and analytical service provider in Canada, they have been providing businesses, charities, and governmental organizations with comprehensive data products since being founded in 2001. For each neighbourhood, they provide estimates of what products consumers buy, where and how often they shop, how much they spend, which media channels they use, their lifestyles, and their attitudes or psychographics.  Data products  Their data products include demographics , consumer behaviour, and a number of other categories. The Canadian census is conducted every 5 years, so in order to produce inter-censal estimates, e.g. for Sault Ste. Marie, they need to take into consideration other factors. They also consider factors which affect the standard census such as undercount. All data products are modelled down to the 6-digit postal code level and various levels of census geographic units, with each postal code averaging 10-15 households. Manifold is a partner of Vividata and Numeris, and models their survey responses down to the 6-digit postal...
Airini Karauria Tamiwhakakiteaoterangi Donnelly or Airini Tonore was a New Zealand tribal leader, lawyer, and landowner of Mori descent she identified with the Ngti Kahungunu iwi. She served as an advocate in the Native Land Court in Rangitikei and was involved in numerous land deals that made her powerful. She was born in Puketapu, Hawke's Bay, New Zealand where her mother was Haromi Te Ata and her father was Ngati Kahungunu chief Karauria or Karauria Pupu, she was the eldest of five children. She was the great-niece of Tareha Te Moananui. Her father died in battle at Gate P on 29 April 1864, after which she was sent to live with an uncle of her mother, Rnata Kawep, who sought to educate her in Mori lore and in the English language. Her marriage to an Irish immigrant George Prior Donnelly took place in 1877, a year after she had initially met him while out horseriding. Her husband immigrated to the Hawke's Bay from County Tipperary in 1862. They had a daughter, Maude Airini Tiakitai, and a son, Henare Paraea, who died at three months old. Photographs of Airini and her daughter Maude are held Te Papa Tongarewa Museum of New Zealand, as well as a tangiwai...
Matt Casamassina is a video game journalist, businessman, and novelist, and a founding editor of IGN. He quit working for IGN on April 23, 2010. In his time at the site, he was the author of many reviews and previews of games by video game developer and publisher Nintendo. He resides in Los Angeles, California, is married and has three children. Casamassina started in 1997 as editor of the website N64.com, which soon became the Nintendo 64 section of the IGN site and whose domain name now redirects to Nintendo's official website. Casamassina also appeared on the G4 television program Attack of the Show! as a guest star and as a character model in the Nintendo 64 game Perfect Dark. He, along with Craig Harris, Chadd Chambers, and Peer Schneider, has become one of the main characters in the IGN-published webcomic Cubetoons. Casamassina independently published his first novel, Dead Weight, in 2016. In 2017, Casamassina founded Rogue Games Inc., which has developed and released games such as Fisti-fluffs, The Pocket Arcade, and Under: Depths of Fear.  Work   Apple  On April 22, 2010, Casamassina announced on his blog that he would be leaving IGN to work for Apple, where he was the...
Brbara Catherine Figueroa Sandoval is a Chilean psychologist, philosophy professor, trade unionist and politician. Since 2023, she has been appointed as a general secretary of the Communist Party of Chile . She served as president of the Workers' United Center of Chile from 2012 to 2021 and previously was national leader of the College of Teachers of Chile. From 31 March 2022 to 24 September 2023, she served as her country's ambassador to Argentina, under the government of President Gabriel Boric.  History  She was born in Santiago as the daughter of Salom Sandoval and Jos Figueroa Jorquera. They were known to be union leaders and communist activists. During her childhood she lived in Quinta Normal and San Fernando, where her father served as councilor and mayor. In Santiago, she studied at the municipal school of Liceo Cervantes, until her family moved to live in San Fernando, where she completed her schooling at the Liceo Jos Gregorio Argomedo, a private subsidized Catholic school in the city. She joined the Communist Youth of Chile at the age of 15. Her membership would continue after her entry into higher education, at the Metropolitan...
Choeradoplana banga is a species of land planarian belonging to the subfamily Geoplaninae. It is found in areas within the Atlantic Forest in Brazil, such as Cantareira State Park.  Description  Choeradoplana banga is a flatworm around 45 mm in length and 2-3 mm in width. It has an elongated body with a dilated anterior tip and a pointed posterior tip. The base dorsal color of the body is a pale ochre with several irregular dark brown spots. The ventral side of the body is a pale yellowish color. It is distinguished from other members of Choeradoplana by its pale ochre color and brown spots, a bell-shaped pharynx, an intrabulbar prostatic vesicle, a narrow female atrium, the common glandular ovovitelline duct approaching the vagina from behind the atrium, and a large sphincter under the male and female atria that is adjacent to the gonopore canal.  Etymology  The specific epithet of banga is derived from a word within the Tupi-Guarani language family, banga, meaning bent, reverse this is in reference to the species' glandular ovovitelline duct approaching behind the atrium, in contrast to other members of the genus.  References 
Megasoma gyas is a species of large Neotropical rhinoceros beetles. There are no recognized subspecies.  Description  Megasoma gyas have setae all over their bodies. Males have three thoracic horns and one cephalic horn. Females are without horns.  References   External links  Megasoma gyas. The Encyclopedia of Life.
Szwadron is a Polish historical film directed by Juliusz Machulski. It was released in 1993. The film was selected as the Polish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 66th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee. The film was based on Rembek's short stories.  Plot  Period war drama. A highly fictionalised account on the exploits of the Russian Imperial Army Regiment of Dragoons of Novorossia and Don Cossacks during Polish January Uprising in 1863. A young Russian Count Fyodor Yeryiomin joins his regiment as a lieutenant in May 1863. He finds friends, enemies and love ... but, above all, he finds doubts.  Cast  Aleksander Bednarz as Petersilge Grzegorz Damiecki Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu as Franek Bata Janusz Gajos as Dobrowolski Wojciech Klata as Symcha Andrzej Konic as General Maciej Kozowski as Kozlow Agnieszka Krukwna as Weronka Katarzyna Lochowska as Emilia  See also  List of submissions to the 66th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film List of Polish submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film  References   External links  Szwadron at IMDb
The U.S. Cavalry Museum is a museum located on Fort Riley in Fort Riley, Kansas, United States. The Museum Division is responsible for exhibiting and interpreting the history of Fort Riley from its establishment to the present, to include its various schools, major commands, and community life. To support post education, training, research, and historical programs, the museum provides educational programs and services. The museum is housed in the original base hospital building, which was built in 1855.  Exhibits  The museum covers this history of the U.S. Cavalry from the Revolutionary War until the end of the mounted era in 1942.  Visitor restrictions  The U. S. Cavalry Museum is located on the Fort Riley Military Post. In order to visit the museum you must pass through a security check point where you will be ask to show a photo id and a valid vehicle registration. In addition your vehicle MAY be searched.  References   External links  Fort Riley Museums
Komehr is a village in, and the capital of, Komehr Rural District of the Central District of Sepidan County, Fars province, Iran.  History  The village was buried, leaving no survivors, during the 1972 Iran blizzard.  Demographics   Population  At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 1,722 in 379 households. The following census in 2011 counted 1,759 people in 477 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 1,583 people in 450 households. It was the most populous village in its rural district.  See also  Iran portal  Notes   References 
Van Riper is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: Charles Van Riper , speech therapist Jacob J. Van Riper , American lawyer and politician Paul K. Van Riper , retired Lieutenant General of the United States Marine Corps Paul P. Van Riper , political scientist Peter Van Riper , artist and musician Walter D. Van Riper , American judge and politician Charles King Van Riper , American newspaperman, writer, and playwright  Places   United States  Lozier House and Van Riper Mill, historic structures located in Midland Park, New Jersey Van Riper House, 1708 Bergen Dutch sandstone house in Nutley, New Jersey Van Riper State Park, Michigan Van Riper-Hopper House, 1786 house in Wayne, New Jersey. Now the Wayne Township Museum.
Fayetteville Confederate Cemetery is a cemetery for soldiers of the Confederate States located on the eastern side of Fayetteville in Washington County, Arkansas. Added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1993, the cemetery encompasses 3.5 acres .  History  Many American Civil War battles were fought in northwest Arkansas, including the Battle of Cane Hill, Battle of Pea Ridge, Battle of Prairie Grove, and many small skirmishes such as the action at Fayetteville. Initially scattered throughout Benton County and Washington County, efforts in 1878 by the Southern Memorial Association of Washington County succeeded in collecting the remains of fallen Confederate soldiers and burying them in the new Confederate cemetery. The Association paid for the remains to be moved and re-interred.  Design  The hundreds of graves are arranged into tree-shaded rows surrounded by an 1885 wall of native stone. The cemetery also offers a view from the hill down onto Fayetteville. A monument was constructed around 1898 at the center of the cemetery.  See also  Fayetteville National Cemetery National Register of Historic Places listings in Washington County, Arkansas...
Odabakht was a 3rd-century Sasanian prince. He was the son of Shapur Mishanshah, a Sasanian prince who governed Maishan, and was the son of the Sassanian shah Shapur I. Odabakht's mother was a queen named Denag. Odabakht had many other siblings named Hormizdag, Hormizd, Bahram, Shapur, Peroz, and Shapurdukhtak. In 260, his father died and was probably succeeded by Denag as the governor of Maishan. Odabakht probably died before the ascension of his uncle Narseh in 293.  Sources  Frye, Richard Nelson . The History of Ancient Iran. C.H.Beck. pp. 1-411. ISBN 9783406093975. Gignoux, Philippe . DNAG. Encyclopaedia Iranica, Vol. VII, Fasc. 3. p. 282.
The 2007-08 Coca-Cola Tigers season was the 6th season of the franchise in the Philippine Basketball Association . After JB Bailon replaced Hector Calma as manager one season ago, Mark Telan was acquired by giving up draft picks, while Joseph Yeo was traded to Sta. Lucia Realtors in exchange of Mark Isip and Cesar Catli. In mid-season, Tigers acquired Asi Taulava from Talk 'N Text Phone Pals in exchange for Ali Peek. The move made Phone Pals the team to beat for the 2008 Fiesta Conference. But with that, the Tigers finished 4th place in the Fiesta Conference, but lost in the quarterfinals against Magnolia Beverage.  Key dates  August 19: The 2007 PBA Draft took place in Market! Market!, Taguig.  Draft picks  Tigers did not have any draft pick, as Magnolia Beverage Masters, Air21 Express, and Sta. Lucia Realtors owned the team's draft picks because of trades.  Roster   Records   Philippine Cup   Team standings   Schedule   Bracket   Wildcard phase   First round   Second round  Coca-Cola and Talk 'N Text met in the first wildcard round, with the two teams making a mid-season trade, with Asi Taulava going to the Tigers while Ali Peek...
Robert Lawrence Leonard , known as Robert Sean Leonard, is an American actor. He has received a Tony Award and a Obie Award over the course of a career on both stage and screen that started in the 1980s. He is best known for his portrayal of Neil Perry in the drama film Dead Poets Society and Dr. James Wilson in the medical drama series House . A prolific stage actor, Leonard won a Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play for his performance in The Invention of Love in 2001. His other theater credits include Candida, Long Day's Journey Into Night, Breaking the Code, The Speed of Darkness, Philadelphia, Here I Come!, Arcadia, The Music Man, Born Yesterday, Fifth of July, and To Kill a Mockingbird.  Early life  Robert Lawrence Leonard was born in Westwood, New Jersey, on February 28, 1969. He grew up in nearby Ridgewood, where he attended Ridgewood High School but later dropped out at 17 to pursue acting. He studied at Fordham University and later the Columbia University School of General Studies. He studied theater at HB Studio. He has a brother named Sean, whose name he adopted as his new middle name when the Screen Actors Guild advised...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 351 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Nova is a Cuban state-sponsored Linux distribution launched in February 2009. It was developed in Havana at the University of Information Science by students and professors to provide free and open-source software to inexperienced users and Cuban institutions. The first version was based on Gentoo Linux, but starting with version 2.1, the developers switched to Ubuntu. In May 2016, discussions about a new version 6.0 were underway. However, by 2016, Distrowatch had marked Nova as discontinued, and its website, www.nova.cu had been taken down. Nova re-entered development later, and version 8.0 was released in January-March 2022. In early 2018, its repositories and download server was shut down temporarily, with users being told to switch to CentOS, after which Nova resumed development a couple months later. By early 2019, the distribution website was again active and DistroWatch listed it as under active development. As of February 2026, the distribution's website seems to be abandoned, with web browsers displaying an alert to visitors about an expired TLS certificate from August 2024.  Goal and adoption  The goal of Nova was to achieve sovereignty and...
Solus is an independently developed operating system for the x86-64 architecture based on the Linux kernel and a choice of Budgie, GNOME, KDE Plasma or fce as the desktop environment. Its package manager, eopkg, is based on the PiSi package management system from Pardus Linux, and it has a semi-rolling release model, with new package updates landing in the stable repository every Friday. The developers of Solus have stated that Solus was intended exclusively for use on personal computers and will not include software that is only useful in enterprise or server environments.  History  On September 20, 2015, Ikey Doherty announced that Solus 1.0 will be codenamed Shannon, after the River Shannon in Ireland, indicating that codenames for releases will continue this theme, using Irish rivers. In July 2016, Solus announced the intention to discard the concept of fixed point releases and to embrace a rolling release model. In January 2017, Doherty announced that Solus will adopt Flatpak to reassemble third-party applications. In August, Doherty announced that Solus also will adopt Snaps . On June 13 the same year, it was announced that...
The Tri-Lab Operating System Stack is a Linux distribution based on Red Hat Enterprise Linux that was created to provide a software stack for high performance computing clusters for laboratories within the National Nuclear Security Administration . The operating system allows multiple smaller systems to emulate a high-performance computing platform.  Linux distribution  The name tri-lab refers to the three major NNSA labs, the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, the Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the Sandia National Laboratories. The OS is used by NNSA computers including the El Capitan supercomputer and systems using ARM architecture including the Thunder2 system on a chip . In addition to being used by the National Nuclear Security Administration , most of the systems in NASA's High-End Computing Capability Project, part of the NASA Advanced Supercomputing Division, were migrated to TOSS in March 2022. Many of the software packages included in TOSS are from the RHEL repository. Additional packages are built using Fedora's Koji build system to create RPM packages. The system also uses SLURM and Flux scheduling and resource...
GNU is an extensive collection of free software , which can be used as an operating system or can be used in parts with other operating systems. Most of GNU is licensed under the GNU Project's own General Public License . GNU is also the project within which the free software concept originated. Richard Stallman, the founder of the project, views GNU as a technical means to a social end. Relatedly, Lawrence Lessig states in his introduction to the second edition of Stallman's book Free Software, Free Society that in it Stallman has written about the social aspects of software and how Free Software can create community and social justice.  Name  GNU is a recursive acronym for GNU's Not Unix!, chosen because GNU's design is Unix-like, but differs from Unix by being free software and containing no Unix code. Stallman chose the name by using various plays on words, including the song The Gnu.  History  Before the 1980s there existed a widespread practice of sharing software in ways similar to what is now considered free software where the participants are free to share copies of the software. Richard Stallman was a part of a group...
Eugenia Calosso was an Italian conductor and composer. She studied at the conservatory in Leipzig, and studied composition with Giovanni Cravero. She began her career as a conductor at the Casino Municipale in San Remo and continued concert tours of Europe until 1914. Calosso wrote madrigals, orchestral suites, and instrumental works for violin and piano, and more than fifty lieder. She wrote one opera, Vespero, with a libretto by Ernesto Ragazzoni.  Life  Eugenia Calosso was born on 21 April 1878 in Turin, Piedmont. She studied at the conservatory in Leipzig, and studied composition with Giovanni Cravero. She began her career as a conductor at the Casino Municipale in San Remo and continued concert tours of Europe until 1914, conducting in Basle, Berlin, Brussels, Cologne, London and Paris. Calosso wrote madrigals, lieder, orchestral suites, and instrumental works for violin and piano. She wrote about fifty lieder. She wrote one opera, Vespero with a libretto by Ernesto Ragazzoni. She died after 1914. In 2020 soprano Susan Nelson included one of Calosso's works, Foglie Secche, in a quarantine project to record one hundred pieces composed by women...
Cameron of the Royal Mounted is a 1921 Canadian silent Western film directed by Henry MacRae and starring Gaston Glass, Irving Cummings and Vivienne Osborne. Part of the tradition of Northerns, it is based on the story Corporal Cameron by Ralph Connor about a young Scottish immigrant who joins the Mounties. Mostly lost, only one-third of the film is held at the National Film Archives at Ottawa.  Cast   References   Bibliography  Langman, Larry. A Guide to Silent Westerns. Greenwood Publishing Group, 1992.  External links  Cameron of the Royal Mounted at IMDb
Braxton County High School is a high school located in Sutton, West Virginia, United States. The school includes grades 9-12, and serves all of Braxton County.  School history  BCHS replaced three smaller high schools in the county, Sutton High School, Gassaway High School, and Burnsville High School, thereby consolidating both Braxton County's students and its educational resources. The two-story school building initially consisted of three wings, known as A, B, and C. C wing was the academic wing which contained classrooms for classes such as chemistry, math, and English. B wing was the vocational wing which held vocational classes, such as typing, cooking, building construction, electrical and welding. A wing consisted of administrative offices, a cafeteria and a gymnasium, including a training area behind the second level. All of the wings were connected by a ground floor central area that included the main offices, cafeteria, library, and band room. In the summer of 1991, a wooden covered bridge was built that connected the second floors of B and C wings to help students transition from classes more quickly. In the 1990s, the open area where the bridge had previously...
Wiktor Tokin February 21, 1922 in Tokacze, Poland - May 7, 2013 was a Polish sculptor and architect. A member of the Armia Krajowa resistance during World War II he was arrested by the Gestapo, and incarcerated at Auschwitz from November 17, 1942, to February 1944. During this period Tokin survived a death march to Stalag at Sandbostel.  Work  Tokin graduated from two universities, the Gdask Polytechnic, and the Academy of Fine Arts in Gdask, to become one of the more influential Polish artists of the 1960s. He is best known for his monumental sculptures built in memory of the victims of the German concentration camps in Stutthof and Majdanek. His most recognized works are abstract forms of colored concrete with expressive form, incorporating architectural design and elements.  Leading works  Monument The Marrying of Poland with the Sea in Kolobrzeg, built November 30, 1963. Monument Fight and Martyrdom in the Nazi concentration camp in Stutthof, built May 12, 1968. Monument Fight and Martyrdom and the mausoleum-pantheon in the Nazi concentration camp in Majdanek, built in 1969. Fight and Martyrdom in Pawiak, Warsaw. Monument to the Battle of in Plock, 2...
Chris Katjiukua is a Namibian professional footballer who played as a defender for several South African clubs and the Namibia national football team. He has played for Eleven Arrows and African Stars in Namibia, and Lamontville Golden Arrows, Highlands Park and Black Leopards in South Africa-before finishing with a gameless stint at Cape Town Spurs.  Club career   Early career  Born in Okakarara, Katjiukua started his career with Eleven Arrows where he won the Namibia FA Cup in 2011, before joining African Stars in 2011. He won the Namibia FA Cup again in 2013 with African Stars.  Lamontville Golden Arrows  Katjiakua joined Lamontville Golden Arrows in January 2014, and made his debut for the club on 8 February 2014, starting in a 3-2 win at home to Polokwane City. He made 2 further South African Premier Division appearances in the 2014-15 season as Golden Arrows were relegated to the National First Division. He scored his first goal for Golden Arrows on 23 August 2014 in a 1-0 win over Black Leopards, their first game of the season. Over the course of the 2014-15 season, Katjiukua made 26 appearances, scoring twice, as Golden Arrows were promoted...
Murchisoniidae is an extinct family of fossil gastropods in the superfamily Murchisonioidea according to the taxonomy of the Gastropoda by Bouchet  Rocroi, 2005. This family has no subfamilies.  Genera  Genera within the family Murchisoniidae include: Murchisonia d'Archiac  Verneuil, 1841, the type genus  References  Koken, E. . Die Gastropoden der Trias um Hallstadt. Jahrbuch der Kaiserlich-Kniglichen Geologischen Reichsanstalt. 46: 37126. Wenz, W. . Gastropoda. Teil 1: Allgemeiner Teil und Prosobranchia. 1-1639. In: Schindewolf, O.H. Handbuch der Palozoologie, Band 6. Verlag Gebrder Borntrger, Berlin.  External links  https:archive.orgstreampalozoicfossil01geolpage234mode2up
Beinn Bheigeir is a hill on the island of Islay in Scotland. At 491 m, it is the highest of the seven 'Marilyn' hills on Islay, and the highest point on the island. It is in the south east of Islay in the Ardtalla Estate. One possible approach is from Ardtalla: Start by following the path north towards Proaig, then turn west towards Beinn Bheigier. Once some height is gained turn northwest to walk around the hill towards Bealach Corrach. Walk west towards the bealach, then steeply climb up to reach the summit. A trig point marks the summit. On a clear day views include the island of Jura with the Paps of Jura, Kintyre, the Isle of Arran and most of Islay.  See also  List of islands by highest point  References   External links 
Catharine Smiley Cheatham was an American singer and monologist.  Early life  Cheatham was born in Nashville, Tennessee in 1864. Her father, Richard Boone Cheatham, was a Tennessee politician who was the mayor of Nashville from 1860 to 1862, and her mother was Frances Ann Bugg. Cheatham began her career in music at age 14 by performing at First Presbyterian Church in Nashville. She later went on to study in New York City, Paris, and Berlin.  Career  As a vocalist, she gave her debut international performance in London, England in 1904 where she performed renditions of African-American folk songs. She is credited with having helped preserve these traditional songs and bring them to European audiences. While in London, she was introduced to and befriended members of the British royal family, for whom she would go on to perform many times. However, it is her contributions to children's music for which Cheatham is best known as a musician, as she became popular throughout the world by performing children's songs and stories. During her career, she performed for thousands in England, France, Germany, and the United States, and organized children's concerts...
Ardeadoris scottjohnsoni is a species of sea slug, a dorid nudibranch, a shell-less marine gastropod mollusk in the family Chromodorididae.  Distribution  This species was described from Hawaii. It seems to be endemic to the Hawaiian Islands.  Description  This nudibranch has a white body with a yellow-edged mantle border. Its gills have white bases with black tips and the rhinophores have transparent bases and black clubs, with a thin electric-blue vertical line. It grows to 30 mm in length.  References 
Kavi Raz is an Indian-born British actor, writer, director and producer. Born in Punjab, Raz left India at a young age for the United Kingdom, where he grew up. Raz is best known for his role as Dr. VJ Kochar on the 1980's medical drama St. Elsewhere, for which he is often credited as the first actor of South Asian descent to play a regular role in an American network television series.  Biography  Raz was one of several children born to a Sikh family in a small village in Punjab. His father had served in the British Indian Army during World War II, allowing him to receive a work visa for the United Kingdom. The family relocated to the United Kingdom when Raz was 11, residing in Leamington Spa they later relocated again to the United States, joining Raz's older sister in California. He attended university in the San Francisco Bay Area, earning a bachelor's degree in engineering and a master's degree in industrial engineering. He was a founder and artistic director of the Wandering Players' Theatre Company. The company staged several World and US premieres of plays from India. Western audiences were exposed to the works of Rabindranath Tagore for the first...
Cerovo pronounced or  German: Zerou is a small settlement in the Municipality of Grosuplje in central Slovenia. It lies in the hills south of Grosuplje in the historical region of Lower Carniola. The municipality is now included in the Central Slovenia Statistical Region.  Mass grave  Cerovo is the site of a mass grave associated with the Second World War. The Trontelj Shaft Mass Grave is located south of Cerovo, about 130 m southeast of Mayor Cave , also known as Tabor Cave . It contains the remains of unidentified victims.  Church  The local church, built in an isolated location south of the settlement, is dedicated to Saint Nicholas and belongs to the Parish of t. Jurij pri Grosupljem. In its core it is a 13th-century Romanesque building that was restyled in the Baroque. It has a well-preserved late 15th-century defence wall, built as a refuge against Ottoman raids.  References   External links  Media related to Cerovo at Wikimedia Commons Cerovo on Geopedia
Luiza Pendyk is a Polish former professional footballer who played as a forward. Capped 25 times for the Poland women's national team, at club level she played for multiple teams in Sweden and was the Damallsvenskan top goal scorer on two occasions.  Club career  Born in Luba and raised in Wrocaw, Pendyk emerged with the AZS Wrocaw club. She transferred to Czarni Sosnowiec and quickly became recognised as one of the best players in the country. Pendyk continued her football career in Sweden, initially with Tyres FF. In a long and successful spell in Swedish football she was the Damallsvenskan top goal scorer on two consecutive occasions: 1999 and 2000. After five seasons with Malm FF, Pendyk retired from football to focus on her studies. However, she agreed to return to the club part way through the following 2001 season, after which she retired again. Altogether Pendyk scored 163 goals in 161 games for Malm. In July 2002, Pendyk agreed to join local lower division team Staffanstorps GIF, where some former Malm teammates also played. She finished the 2002 Sderettan season with seven goals to her credit. She decided to remain in Sweden after her football...
Ansonia High School is a public high school in Ansonia, Ohio, United States. It is the only high school in the Ansonia Local Schools District.  See also  Education in the United States List of high schools in Ohio  References   External links  District website
Joseph Mees was a Belgian prelate of the Catholic Church who spent his career in the diplomatic service of the Holy See, including almost twenty years as an Apostolic Nuncio.  Biography  Joseph Mees was born in Bornem, Belgium, on 18 April 1923. He was ordained a priest on 4 April 1948. To prepare for a diplomatic career he entered the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy in 1948. On 14 June 1969, Pope Paul VI named him a titular archbishop and Apostolic Nuncio to Indonesia. He received his episcopal consecration from Cardinal Jean-Marie Villot on 30 June 1969. On 11 July 1973, Pope Paul appointed him Apostolic Nuncio to Paraguay. He had a close relationship with Paraguayan dictator Alfredo Stroessner. On 19 January 1985, Pope John Paul II named him Apostolic Delegate to Southern Africa and Apostolic Pro-Nuncio to Lesotho. Rather than support the anti-apartheid efforts of the South African bishops led by Denis Hurley, Archbishop of Durban, Mees quoted Pope John Paul's structures against clerical participation in politics, the same words South African President P.W. Botha had quoted to the bishops: It is not for the pastors of the Church to intervene...
Atiqa Odho is a Pakistani television and film actress, television host, and the namesake of her own founded cosmetics brand Odho Cosmetics. She debuted in Anwar Maqsood's TV series Sitara aur Mehrunissa and later appeared in dramas like Dasht, Nijaat, Harjaee and later in Humsafar. She also starred in a string of films, including Jo Darr Gya Woh Marr Gya, Mummy and Mujhe Chand Chahiye.  Early life and career  Born in 1968 into a Sindhi family, being the granddaughter of the Sardar of Jacobabad, she started her professional life as a make-up artist and hairstylist in 1989.  Career   Acting  While working as a make-up artist for various advertising agencies in Karachi, she was discovered by television personality, Anwar Maqsood. She starred in his play Sitara Aur Mehrunissa in 1992. In 1995, she made her film debut in Jo Darr Gya Woh Marr Gya. In 2008, Odho produced and acted in social problem film Chalo Phir Se Jee Lain, a telefilm based on breast cancer awareness. In 2022, Atiqa Odho joins the Turkish drama Koyu Beyaz in which she will make her debut on the world stage.  Politics  She was close to the late Pervez Musharraf,...
Associao Nova Prata de Esportes Cultura e Lazer, commonly known as Associao Nova Prata, or just as Nova Prata, is a Brazilian football club based in Nova Prata, Rio Grande do Sul state.  History  The club was founded on April 10, 2003. The club won the Campeonato Municipal de Nova Prata in 2008. In 2009 and 2010 they participated in the Campeonato Estadual Amador. They competed in the 2011 edition of the Copa FGF. Nova Prata competed in the Campeonato Gacho Third Division in 2012.  Honours   State  Campeonato Gacho Srie B Runners-up : 2013  City  Campeonato Municipal de Nova Prata Winners : 2008  Stadium  Associao Nova Prata de Esportes Cultura e Lazer play their home games at Estdio Municipal Dr. Mrio Cini. The stadium has a maximum capacity of 6,000 people.  References 
Jakov Blagai is a Croatian professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder for HNL club Rude.  Club career  Blagai started his senior career with Hajduk Split in the Croatian First Football League, where he has made nine league appearances during the 2019-20 season.  Career statistics   Club  As of match played 15 May 2026  Honours  Borac Banja Luka Bosnian Premier League: 2023-24 Bosnian Cup runner-up: 2023-24  References   External links  Jakov Blagai at the Croatian Football Federation
Polar ecology is the relationship between plants and animals in a polar environment. Polar environments are in the Arctic and Antarctic regions. Arctic regions are in the Northern Hemisphere, and it contains land and the islands that surrounds it. Antarctica is in the Southern Hemisphere and it also contains the land mass, surrounding islands and the ocean. Polar regions also contain the subantarctic and subarctic zone which separate the polar regions from the temperate regions. Antarctica and the Arctic lie in the polar circles. The polar circles are imaginary lines shown on maps to be the areas that receives less sunlight due to less radiation. These areas either receive sunlight or shade 24 hours a day because of the earth's tilt. Plants and animals in the polar regions are able to withstand living in harsh weather conditions but are facing environmental threats that limit their survival.  Climate  Polar climates are cold, windy and dry. Because of the lack of precipitation and low temperatures the Arctic and Antarctic are considered the world's largest deserts or Polar deserts. Much of the radiation from the Sun that is received is reflected off...
Lake Ontario is one of the five Great Lakes of North America. It is bounded on the north, west, and southwest by the Canadian province of Ontario, and on the south and east by the U.S. state of New York. The Canada-United States border spans the centre of the lake. On the Canadian side, the major cities are Kingston, Mississauga, Toronto, Hamilton, and St. Catharines. On the American side, the major cities are Rochester and Watertown. As the last in the Great Lakes chain of freshwater lakes, Lake Ontario serves as the outlet to the Atlantic Ocean via the Saint Lawrence River, comprising the western end of the Saint Lawrence Seaway. Its primary inlet is the Niagara River from Lake Erie. The Long Sault control dam, primarily along with the Moses-Saunders Power Dam regulates the water level of the lake.  Name  The French explorer Samuel de Champlain named the lake Lac de S. Louis in 1632, a name that remained in use until the end of the 17th century. The name Ontario is likely derived from the Iroquoian word Kaniatar:io or Oniatar:io meaning lake of shining waters or beautiful lake. It has been in use since at least 1641. During French colonial...
Social ecology is the study of how people engage with, respond to, and impact their environment. Early social ecology existed within the frameworks of biological ecology, human ecology, systems theory, and ecological psychology, examining people-environment relationships through the lens of biological processes and geographic environment. Modern social ecology merges this old framework with novel systems focusing on the role of social, psychological, institutional, and cultural contexts. This has enabled multidisciplinary study into the health of communities and individuals. Social ecology has been employed to study a diverse array of social problems and policies within the behavioral and social sciences.  Conceptual Framework  The 1970s and 1980s saw increased public awareness of the social role in the establishment of disease as well as a rising interest in disease prevention and health promotion. In 1996, Research Professor Daniel Stokols established six guidelines for effective utilization of social ecology in the promotion of community health, a direct response to this emerging field: Examine Links between Multiple Facets of Well-being and Diverse Conditions of the Sociophysical...
Desert ecology is the study of interactions between both biotic and abiotic components of desert environments. A desert ecosystem is defined by interactions between organisms, the climate in which they live, and any other non-living influences on the habitat. Deserts are arid regions that are generally associated with warm temperatures however, cold deserts also exist. Deserts can be found in every continent, with the largest deserts located in Antarctica, the Arctic, Northern Africa, and the Middle East.  Climate  Deserts experience a wide range of temperatures and weather conditions, and can be classified into four types: hot, semiarid, coastal, and cold. Hot deserts experience warm temperatures year round, and low annual precipitation. Low levels of humidity in hot deserts contribute to high daytime temperatures, and extensive night time heat loss. The average annual temperature in hot deserts is approximately 20 to 25 C, however, extreme weather conditions can lead to temperatures ranging from -18 to 49 C. Rainfall generally occurs, followed by long periods of dryness. Semiarid deserts experience similar conditions to hot deserts, however, the maximum and minimum temperatures...
Stream ecology is the scientific study of the aquatic species, their interactions with one another, and their connection with the biological, chemical, and physical processes from multiple dimensions within streams. Streams display great variability in their force and generate spatial and temporal gradients in abiotic and biotic activities. The physical structure of stream networks show headwater systems behave different from mid-lower order systems with mean annual discharge, channel size, alluvial habitat and contributing area all key factors.  Importance  Streams along with lakes, rivers, and wetlands within protected areas were viewed as an afterthought. However, freshwater aquatic ecosystems such as streams are connected by flowing water that changes on a spatial and temporal scale. Streams , are crucial part of the many past and current characteristics of cities, and potentially any future. Early settlements and the development of cities were around streams as they provide many services such as: transportation, commerce, recreation, water supply, and much more. Therefore, there has been a shift in research from biophysical structure of stream ecosystems...
Molecular ecology is a subdiscipline of ecology that is concerned with applying molecular genetic techniques to ecological questions e.g., population structure, phylogeography, conservation, speciation, hybridization, biodiversity. It is virtually synonymous with the field of Ecological Genetics as pioneered by Theodosius Dobzhansky, E. B. Ford, Godfrey M. Hewitt, and others. Molecular ecology is related to the fields of population genetics and conservation genetics. Methods frequently include using microsatellites to determine gene flow and hybridization between populations. The development of molecular ecology is also closely related to the use of DNA microarrays, which allows for the simultaneous analysis of the expression of thousands of different genes. Quantitative PCR may also be used to analyze gene expression as a result of changes in environmental conditions or different responses by differently adapted individuals. Molecular ecology uses molecular genetic data to answer ecological question related to biogeography, genomics, conservation genetics, and behavioral ecology. Studies mostly use data based on DNA sequences. This approach has been enhanced over a number of years...
Recreation ecology is the scientific study of environmental impacts resulting from recreational activity in protected natural areas. This field of study includes research and monitoring assessments of biophysical changes, analyses to identify causal and influential factors or support carrying capacity planning and management, and investigations of the efficacy of educational, regulatory, and site management actions designed to minimize recreation impacts. These ecological understandings of environmental impacts of outdoor recreation is critical to the management of recreation, ecotourism and visitation to natural spaces. Recreation ecology research has looked at the ecological impacts of hiking, camping and other outdoor recreation activities where the use and visitation is concentrated. As outdoor recreation shows increasing participation globally, questions and concerns are raised to which these can be managed sustainably with minimal impact to the environment.  History  While scientific studies of human trampling can be traced back to the late 1920s, a substantial body of recreation ecology literature did not accumulate until the 1970s when visitation to the outdoors soared,...
Ecology Generation is one of the four green parties in France, along with The Ecologists , the Independent Ecological Movement , and Cap cologie. Founded in 1990 by Brice Lalonde, Environment Minister, upon the suggestion of President Franois Mitterrand, it describes itself as a club with cross-party alliances of green-minded politicians and public servants. It moved away from the presidential majority in 1992, when Brice Lalonde left the cabinet. The party, in alliance with The Greens obtained about 14 of the vote in the 1992 French regional elections but the 1993 legislative election was disappointing for the Green-GE alliance, as it failed to win any seats and won only 7 other ecologist parties brought the score up to 11, when polls had given them up to 16. Nol Mamre was the movement's vice-president from 1992 to 1994, when he was excluded from the party and founded the Ecology-Solidarity Convergence, which later joined The Greens. Unlike many green parties, which are traditionally associated with the left-wing, Gnration cologie presents itself as a centrist ecologist party. This is despite...
Systems ecology is an interdisciplinary field of ecology, a subset of Earth system science, that takes a holistic approach to the study of ecological systems, especially ecosystems. Systems ecology can be seen as an application of general systems theory to ecology. Central to the systems ecology approach is the idea that an ecosystem is a complex system exhibiting emergent properties. Systems ecology focuses on interactions and transactions within and between biological and ecological systems, and is especially concerned with the way the functioning of ecosystems can be influenced by human interventions. It uses and extends concepts from thermodynamics and develops other macroscopic descriptions of complex systems.  Overview  Systems ecology seeks a holistic view of the interactions and transactions within and between biological and ecological systems. Systems ecologists realise that the function of any ecosystem can be influenced by human economics in fundamental ways. They have therefore taken an additional transdisciplinary step by including economics in the consideration of ecological-economic systems. In the words of R.L. Kitching: Systems ecology can be defined as the...
This glossary of ecology is a list of definitions of terms and concepts in ecology and related fields. For more specific definitions from other glossaries related to ecology, see Glossary of biology, Glossary of evolutionary biology, and Glossary of environmental science.  A  abiotic component adaptive behavior In behavioral ecology, any behavior which contributes to an individual's reproductive success and is thus subject to the forces of natural selection. allee effect A concept in population ecology that describes the positive relationship between the size of a given population and its growth. alpha diversity The average species diversity of sites or habitats at a local scale. Alpha diversity combined with beta diversity yields gamma diversity. animal behaviour See ethology. animal communication animal migration applied ecology A branch of ecology which uses ecological principles and insights to solve environment-related problems. It includes agroecology and conservation biology. aquatic plant A vascular plant adapted to living in salt water or fresh water aquatic environments. area effect The biogeographic hypothesis that larger islands are able to support more species...
The establishment of industrial ecology as field of scientific research is commonly attributed to an article devoted to industrial ecosystems, written by Frosch and Gallopoulos, which appeared in a 1989 special issue of Scientific American. Industrial ecology emerged from several earlier ideas and concepts, some of which date back to the 19th century.  Before the 1960s  The term industrial ecology has been used alongside industrial symbiosis at least since the 1940s. Economic geography was perhaps one of the first fields to use these terms. For example, in an article published in 1947, George T. Renner refers to The General Principle of Industrial Location as a Law of Industrial Ecology. Briefly stated this is: Any industry tends to locate at a point which provides optimum access to its ingredients or component elements. If all these component elements be juxtaposed, the location of the industry is predetermined. If, however, they occur widely separated, the industry is so located as to be most accessible to that element which would be the most expensive or difficult to transport and which, therefore, becomes the locative factor for the industry in question. In the same...
Nature Ecology  Evolution is an online-only monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Nature Portfolio covering all aspects of research on ecology and evolutionary biology. It was established in 2017. Its first editor-in-chief was Patrick Goymer. The current editor-in-chief is Simon Harold. According to the Journal Citation Reports, Nature Ecology  Evolution has a 2024 impact factor of 14.2.  References   External links  Official website
Sexual Ecology: AIDS and the Destiny of Gay Men is a 1997 book by gay activist Gabriel Rotello, who discusses why HIV continued to infect large numbers of gay men despite the widespread use of condoms and why a number of experts believed that new HIV infections will disproportionately affect gay men in the future. Rotello examines the origins and timeline of the AIDS epidemic, drawing on epidemiology, sociology, gay history, and ecology. His conclusion is that gay men need to reduce their number of partners and increase condom use to bring the infection rate down. Rotello's central argument derives from the epidemiological concept that sexually transmitted epidemics are the result of three factors, sometimes called the Triad of Risk: the infectivity of a sexually transmitted disease , or how easily it spreads the prevalence of that STD in a particular group and the contact rate, or the average number of sexual partners that people have within a particular group. Rotello writes that gay men significantly lowered the first leg of the triad with condom use, but condoms alone were unable to quell the epidemic because the second leg of the triad was...
Reconciliation ecology is the branch of ecology which studies ways to encourage biodiversity in the human-dominated ecosystems of the anthropocene era. Michael Rosenzweig first articulated the concept in his book Win-Win Ecology, based on the theory that there is not enough area for all of earth's biodiversity to be saved within designated nature preserves. Therefore, humans should increase biodiversity in human-dominated landscapes. By managing for biodiversity in ways that do not decrease human utility of the system, it is a win-win situation for both human use and native biodiversity. The science is based in the ecological foundation of human land-use trends and species-area relationships. It has many benefits beyond protection of biodiversity, and there are numerous examples of it around the globe. Aspects of reconciliation ecology can already be found in management legislation, but there are challenges in both public acceptance and ecological success of reconciliation attempts.  Theoretical basis   Human land use trends  Traditional conservation is based on reservation and restoration reservation meaning setting pristine lands aside for the sole purpose of maintaining...
In ecology, a disturbance is a change in environmental conditions that causes a pronounced change in an ecosystem. Disturbances often act quickly and with great effect, to alter the physical structure or arrangement of biotic and abiotic elements. A disturbance can also occur over a long period of time and can impact the biodiversity within an ecosystem. Ecological disturbances include fires, flooding, storms, insect outbreaks, trampling, human presence, earthquakes, plant diseases, infestations, volcanic eruptions, impact events, etc. Not only invasive species can have a profound effect on an ecosystem, native species can also cause disturbance by their behavior. Disturbance forces can have profound immediate effects on ecosystems and can, accordingly, greatly alter the natural community's population size or species richness. Because of these and the impacts on populations, disturbance determines the future shifts in dominance, various species successively becoming dominant as their life history characteristics, and associated life-forms, are exhibited over time.  Definition and types  The scale of disturbance ranges from events as small as a single tree falling, to as large as...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 363 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The Minister for Artificial Intelligence is a position in the Department for Business, Innovation, Science and Trade and the Cabinet Office in the British government. The post has been held by Kanishka Narayan since its creation on 20 July 2026. The position was originally created in March 2023 by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property and was based in the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology. The position was renamed to Minister of Artificial Intelligence in July 2026 by Prime Minister Andy Burnham with the right to attend Cabinet.  List of ministers   See also  AI Security Institute - research organisation under the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology  References 
The core idea of artificial intelligence systems integration is making individual software components, such as speech synthesizers, interoperable with other components, such as common sense knowledgebases, in order to create larger, broader and more capable A.I. systems. The main methods that have been proposed for integration are message routing, or communication protocols that the software components use to communicate with each other, often through a middleware blackboard system. Most artificial intelligence systems involve some sort of integrated technologies, for example, the integration of speech synthesis technologies with that of speech recognition. However, in recent years, there has been an increasing discussion on the importance of systems integration as a field in its own right. Proponents of this approach are researchers such as Marvin Minsky, Aaron Sloman, Deb Roy, Kristinn R. Thrisson and Michael A. Arbib. A reason for the recent attention A.I. integration is attracting is that there have already been created a number of simple A.I. systems for specific problem domains such as computer vision, speech synthesis, etc., and that integrating what's already...
Beginning in the mid-2020s, large language models, including reasoning models, have made increasing progress in generating mathematical proofs at research level. Most such proofs have been conducted using models from OpenAI and Anthropic. This is a list of notable discoveries conducted primarily by such models. The degree of human intervention in AI-generated mathematical proofs may vary and remain unclear. Subjects responsible for publishing such proofs, including individuals and AI companies such as OpenAI, often fail to disclose used prompts, structure of pipelines used as a model workflow, or specific models used for generating proofs. The publication of such proofs may not satisfy standards of science articles. It may not have passed independent review or peer review, and instead be published on corporate websites, personal websites, or social media.  2023  In December 2023, researchers at Google DeepMind used a pre-trained LLM to discover a new lower bound for the cap set problem and new algorithms for the bin packing problem. The results for the cap set problem were verified by mathematician Jordan Ellenberg.  2024  in October 2024, researchers at Meta and the Ecole...
Artificial intelligence is the simulation of intelligence as exhibited by software systems. Artificial intelligence may also refer to:  Music   Albums and EPs  Artificial Intelligence , or the title track, by Tom Cardy, 2021 Artificial Intelligence , 1985 Artificial Intelligence , a series of electronic music albums by Warp Records Artificial Intelligence , the first in the series Artificial Intelligence, a 1997 album by the Wynona Riders  Songs  Artificial Intelligence, a song by Detroit Grand Pubahs from the 2002 album Funk All Y'all  Other uses  Artificial Intelligence , by Patrick Winston originally published in 1977 A.I. Artificial Intelligence, a 2001 film directed by Steven Spielberg Artificial Intelligence , a scientific journal Artificial intelligence in video games Artificial intelligence in fiction, an intelligent self-aware artifact Artificial Intelligence: A Guide for Thinking Humans, a 2019 book by Melanie Mitchell Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, a 1995 book by Stuart J. Russell and Peter Norvig  See also  Artificial intelligence in fiction Autonomic computing Expert system...
Mathematics and artificial intelligence have been interrelated since the initial development of AI. On one hand, mathematics plays a key role in artificial intelligence. For example, many AI algorithms use methods relying on optimization, statistics and linear algebra. On the other hand, researchers have for decades been trying to use AI and computers to help solve mathematics problems. The impact of AI has been pronounced in mathematics, where results are exactly verifiable.  Background   Mathematics in AI  Many AI systems aim to approximate a set of data. This data, represented as numbers, is combined with weights using the techniques of linear algebra. The weighted data is typically non-linearized using for instance a sigmoid function, before defining a loss function to minimize. The loss function is then minimized using an optimization algorithm, for example gradient descent. This produces a set of weights which can be used to approximate the initial data.  AI in mathematics  In mathematics the goal is often to prove a statement or theorem. Large language models can assist mathematicians by writing proofs or helping find mistakes in written work. LLMs can...
In artificial intelligence, an intelligent agent is an entity that perceives its environment, takes actions autonomously to achieve goals, and may improve its performance through machine learning or by acquiring knowledge. AI textbooks define artificial intelligence as the study and design of intelligent agents, emphasizing that goal-directed behavior is central to intelligence. A specialized subset of intelligent agents, AI agents , expands this concept by proactively pursuing goals, making decisions, and taking actions over extended periods. Intelligent agents can range from simple to highly complex. A basic thermostat or control system is considered an intelligent agent, as is a human being, or any other system that meets the same criteria-such as a firm, a state, or a biome. Intelligent agents operate based on an objective function, which encapsulates their goals. They are designed to create and execute plans that maximize the expected value of this function upon completion. For example, a reinforcement learning agent has a reward function, which allows programmers to shape its desired behavior. Similarly, an evolutionary algorithm's behavior is guided...
Artificial Intelligence is a compilation album released by Warp Records on 6 July 1992. It is the first release in Warp's Artificial Intelligence series, and helped create the genre that became known as intelligent dance music.  Music and artwork  The staff of GQ India said of the style present on Artificial Intelligence: Here was dance music you could listen to at home, like a rock album. According to Warp co-founder Steve Beckett, the album was primarily intended for sedentary listening rather than dancing, and this was reflected in the album art. He said: You could sit down and listen to it like you would a Kraftwerk or Pink Floyd album. That's why we put those sleeves on the cover of Artificial Intelligence - to get it into people's minds that you weren't supposed to dance to it!According to Ben Cardew of Pitchfork: Artificial Intelligence saw unite in the service of otherworldly melody, mechanical beats that reach beyond the demands of the dance floor, and waves of chilling ambience and production skills that nod to Detroit techno without resorting to slavish reproduction.  Artwork  The cover artwork depicts an android asleep in an armchair with the...
Artificial intelligence engineering is a technical discipline that focuses on the design, development, and deployment of AI systems. AI engineering involves applying engineering principles and methodologies to create scalable, efficient, and reliable AI-based solutions. It merges aspects of data engineering and software engineering to create real-world applications in diverse domains such as healthcare, finance, autonomous systems, and industrial automation.  Terminology ambiguity  According to Chip Huyen's book AI Engineering: Building Applications with Foundation Models, the term AI engineering refers to the process of building applications that use foundation models, which are typically models developed by a small number of research laboratories and made available as a service. Huyen distinguishes this from machine learning engineering, which involves building and deploying models developed in-house. She notes that most practical AI systems combine both approaches. For example, a customer-support chatbot may use a generative model to produce responses while also incorporating locally built components such as request classifiers or scoring mechanisms to assess...
Artificial Justice is a 2024 Spanish-Portuguese science fiction political thriller film directed by Simn Casal from a screenplay by Casal and Vctor Sierra. It stars Vernica Echegui, Tamar Novas, Alba Galocha and Alberto Ammann.  Plot  In 2028, in Spain, an artificial intelligence system called THENTE 1 serves as an aid to judges. However, the government calls a referendum for this artificial intelligence to be fully implemented in the Administration of Justice, effectively replacing judges, in order to automate and depoliticize justice. Carmen Costa, a renowned judge, is invited to work on the development of the project, but the sudden disappearance of Alicia Kvack, creator of the system, causes great distrust in her, to the point of understanding that she is discovering the tip of the iceberg of a conspiracy that aims to control, from justice, an entire country.  Cast   Production  The film was produced by Justicia Artificial AIE, Tornasol Media, Abano Produciones and Ukbar Filmes, with the participation of RTVE and Prime Video, and the support of ICAA and AGADIC. In November 2022, RTVE reported the beginning of filming in Galicia. Additional...
Artificial Intelligence is a university textbook on artificial intelligence, written by Patrick Henry Winston. It was first published in 1977, and the third edition of the book was released in 1992. It was used as the course textbook for MIT course 6.034.  Content  The book is intended to explain how computers reason and perceive, and introduce the field of artificial intelligence. It describes the field, both as a branch of engineering and as a science, providing a computational perspective. Ideas for representing knowledge, using knowledge, and building practical systems are provided. The intended audience includes engineers, computer scientists, psychologists, biologists, linguists, or philosophers.  Editions  Three editions were published in total . The first edition included a section on Lisp programming. The second edition removed the Lisp section, and added chapters on logic, and learning. Implementation details for the second edition were provide by the companion book, LISP second edition . The third edition was significantly changed, adding a section on learning, including neural networks. The third edition was also updated to...
The Artificial Intelligence Cold War is a narrative in which geopolitical tensions between the United States of America and the People's Republic of China could lead to a Second Cold War waged in the area of artificial intelligence technology rather than in the areas of nuclear capabilities or ideology. The context of the AI Cold War narrative is the AI arms race, which involves a build-up of military capabilities using AI technology by the US and China and the usage of increasingly advanced semiconductors which power those capabilities. According to a February 2019 publication by the Center for a New American Security, General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party i Jinping - believes that being at the forefront of AI technology will be critical to the future of China's global military and economic power competition.  Origins of the term  The term AI Cold War first appeared in 2018 in an article in Wired magazine by Nicholas Thompson and Ian Bremmer. The two authors trace the emergence of the AI Cold War narrative to 2017, when China published its AI Development Plan, which included a strategy aimed at becoming the global leader in AI by 2030. While...
Anosy Avaratra is a rural municipality in Analamanga Region, in the Central Highlands of Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Antananarivo Avaradrano and its population numbers to 15,243 in 2019. It is a relatively new municipality that was split off from Sabotsy Namehana only in October 2015. It is located in the North of Antananarivo along the NationalRoad3. Five Fokontany make up the territory of this municipality: Anosy Avaratra , Ambohitrinimanga, Isahafa, Lazaina and Faravohitra.  Economy  The economy is based on substantial agriculture. Rice, corn, peanuts, beans, manioc are the main crops.  References   External links  Monographie de la Commune
Ernanodontidae is an extinct family of myrmecophagous placental mammals within extinct order Palaeanodonta, that lived in Asia from the middle to late Paleocene.  Classification and phylogeny   Taxonomy   See also  Mammal classification Palaeanodonta  References 
Forsnes Chapel is a parish church of the Church of Norway in Hitra Municipality in Trndelag county, Norway. It is located in the village of Forsnes on the southwestern coast of the island of Hitra. It is one of the churches for the Kvenvr og Sandstad parish which is part of the Orkdal prosti in the Diocese of Nidaros. The red, wooden church was built in a long church design in 1935 using materials from the Old Kvenvr Church which had been moved here and rebuilt by the builder M.O. Gunther. The church seats about 164 people.  History   Old Kvenvr Church  Kvenvr Church was historically located on the small island of Hakkebuya off the western shores of the village of Kvenvr on the main island of Hitra where it was established in the mid-15th century. A new church was built there in 1763 which was in use there until 1909 when the new Kvenvr Church was built in the village of Kvenvr on the main island of Hitra in a more easily accessible location. The old Kvenvr Church stood unused from 1909 until 1934 when the 171-year-old building was deconstructed and moved to the village of Forsnes where it was rebuilt and renamed as the Forsnes...
Zimbabwe is an album by afro-rock band Assagai. Their second and final release, it was recorded at Nova Sound Studios in London for Vertigo Records, but was instead issued by Philips Records in 1971. The album features saxophonists Dudu Pukwana, Bizo Mngqikana, and Fred Fredericks, trumpeter Mongezi Feza, vocalist Martha Mdenge, drummer Louis Moholo, percussionists Terri Quaye and Smiley De Jonnes, and members of the progressive rock group Jade Warrior, who also contributed three compositions. Cover art was provided by Roger Dean, best known for his work with bands such as Yes, Asia, and Uriah Heep. In 1975, the album was reissued by the Music for Pleasure label with the title Afrorock.  Reception  In a review for AllMusic, Richie Unterberger called the album a very interesting fusion of funk, rock, and African influences that's quite forward-looking for the early '70s, with just a bit of psychedelia thrown in, and wrote: When they're playing in a relatively straightforward Afro-funk vein, they're pretty hot, mixing grinding, groovy riffs with some African beats, wailing melancholy horns, and obviously James Brown-influenced rhythm guitar... Zimbabwe's an interesting, energizing...
Nuestra Seora del Rosario, was a galleon of the Spanish Navy laid down in 1587. She was captured by English forces in 1588.  Commission and construction  The name Nuestra Seora del Rosario translates into English directly as Our Lady of the Rosary, a religious reference to the Virgin Mary. The names of contemporary Spanish ships commonly had religious undertones as with general Spanish naming traditions of the period. Nuestra Seora del Rosario was likely commissioned sometime in the mid-1580s though the exact date is unknown and was laid down and constructed at Ribadeo, Lugo, Galicia. She was designed by Spanish shipbuilder Vicente Alvarez. She was launched in 1587 and handed over to the Armada Real at Corunna.  Service  Soon after her construction, Nuestra Seora del Rosario joined the forces gathering for the Spanish Armada in May 1588 under the command of Teniente General Don Pedro de Valds at Corunna. She was recorded as having been at Corunna on 13 July 1588, and was subsequently damaged in collisions on 31 July 1588. Nuestra Seora del Rosario entered the English Channel together with the Spanish Armada. She was the flagship of Don Pedro de Valds who commanded the...
Jeannette Rankin is a bronze sculpture depicting the American politician and women's rights advocate of the same name by Terry Mimnaugh, installed in the United States Capitol Visitor Center's Emancipation Hall, in Washington, D.C., as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection. The statue was gifted by the U.S. state of Montana in 1985.  See also  1985 in art  References   External links  Media related to Jeannette Rankin by Terry Mimnaugh at Wikimedia Commons
Alice Fernanda Soto Gallegos is a Mexican professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder for Liga M Femenil club Monterrey and the Mexico women's national football team.  Club career   Pachuca  In early 2018, Soto joined C.F. Pachuca's youth academy. Later that year, at 12 years and two months old, she became the youngest professional female footballer to be registered with the Mexican Football Federation after Pachuca included her in the first-team roster for the 2018-19 Liga M Femenil season. Soto would not play with Pachuca's first team until February 2020, when she made her Liga M Femenil debut at age thirteen, as a 65th-minute substitute in a 5-0 home victory versus Quertaro. By debuting at thirteen, Soto became the youngest player to have debuted in Liga M Femenil, a record that can't be broken due to current Liga M Femenil regulations prohibiting players under fifteen from playing professionally. On 28 March 2021, at fourteen, Soto became the youngest Mexican footballer to score a goal at a professional level after scoring Pachuca's only goal in a 0-1 victory over Puebla. Soto's breakthrough year with Pachuca came in...
Delta FM was an Independent Local Radio station, broadcasting to East Hampshire, South West Surrey and North West Sussex. The station provided local news, community information, and specialist music programming to the towns of Alton, Bordon, Four Marks, Haslemere, Hindhead, Liphook, Midhurst and Petersfield.  Background  The original Delta Radio first broadcast in January 1990. It was the brainchild of County Sound CEO, Mike Powell who successfully lobbied the Independent Broadcasting Authority for permission to put separate programming for the Haslemere district on what was originally intended to be a relay transmitter for Guildford's County Sound. The station was launched by County Sound's Terry Mann, formerly Programme Director of Radio 210, Reading. After County Sound merged with Radio Mercury to form Allied Radio, Delta Radio was closed down by its new owners in 1992 and the transmitter went back to being a relay. However, when Mike Powell's UKRD Group won the Guildford licence , Delta Radio was relaunched in 1996. Wey Valley Radio had already been operating as a full-time service in nearby Alton and Four Marks since 1992. This station was launched...
The Girl Bandits' Hoodoo is a lost 1912 silent film, a Western comedy produced by the Kalem Company of New York City at its West Coast studio in Santa Monica, California. The motion picture starred Ruth Roland and Marin Sais in the title roles with support from Edward Coxen. With regard to this film's title, in the United States in 1912, in the parlance of that time, the word hoodoo served as slang for something or someone who attracts bad luck or misfortune. Today the title could be interpreted as The Girl Bandits' Bad Luck. No footage of this motion picture is listed among the holdings of major film repositories in either North America or Europe or in known private collections. This Kalem release is therefore considered to be a lost film.  Plot  A plot summary of the comedy is published in the June 29, 1912 issue of the trade publication The Moving Picture World. That summary was copied verbatim from a storyline furnished earlier by Kalem in its promotions of the one-reeler, most notably in the June 15, 1912 issue of the Kalem Kalendar:While Tom boasts of his bravery and marksmanship the stage coach arrives and excited passengers tell of a recent hold-up. Tom is inclined...
Kristin Bahner is an American politician serving in the Minnesota House of Representatives since 2019. A member of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party , Bahner represents District 37B in the northwestern Twin Cities metropolitan area, including the city of Maple Grove in Hennepin County.  Early life, education, and career  Bahner grew up in Richfield, Minnesota. She graduated from Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter with a bachelor of arts degree in communications. She is an IT consultant and small business owner specializing in agile software development and project management. Bahner was one of the original organizers of the January 2017 Minnesota Women's March, where an estimated 110,000 people went to the Capitol, making it one of the largest single-day events in Minnesota history.  Minnesota House of Representatives  Bahner was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives in 2018 and has been reelected every two years since. Bahner first ran unsuccessfully in 2016, challenging one-term Republican incumbent Dennis Smith. She challenged Smith again in 2018 and won. In 2018, Bahner's race was one of the top three races...
Hugh O'Donnell may refer to: Hugh O'Donnell , American leader of the Homestead Steel Strike of 1892 Hugh O'Donnell , American priest and President of the University of Notre Dame Hugh O'Donnell , Scottish professional footballer Hugh O'Donnell , English painter and printmaker Hugh O'Donnell , Scottish politician  Irish noblemen  Hugh Roe O'Donnell , King of Tyrconnell Hugh Duff O'Donnell , Gaelic Irish nobleman Sir Hugh O'Donnell , Gaelic Irish lord Hugh Roe O'Donnell , Lord of Tyrconnell and military leader during the Nine Years' War Hugh Dubh O'Donnell , Gaelic Irish nobleman Hugh O'Donnell, 2nd Earl of Tyrconnell , Irish-born nobleman and soldier Hugh O'Donnell , Irish-born soldier, son of Cathbarr O'Donnell
George C. Cory Jr. was an American pianist and composer whose most notable work was creating the music of the song I Left My Heart in San Francisco. His partner, Douglass Cross, wrote the lyrics. When the song was written in 1953, Cory and Cross were amateur songwriters who had moved to New York following military service during World War II and had become homesick for the West Coast. After pitching the song unsuccessfully to other artists for about eight years, the song was picked up by Ralph Sharon, Tony Bennett's musical director, who suggested to Bennett that it would be a good song for an upcoming 1962 Happy New Year engagement scheduled at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco. Mayor George Christopher and future mayor Joseph L. Alioto were in attendance. After a good response to the song, Bennett recorded it shortly thereafter and released it in February 1962. The song became an enduring hit and in 1969 was named as the official song of San Francisco. The two authors were present at the meeting when the city's Board of Supervisors selected it by a unanimous decision.  Early career  Cory was born August 3, 1920, in Syracuse, NY but grew...
FSB may refer to:  Organizations   Banking and finance  Federal savings bank, a class of bank in the US Federation of Small Businesses, a British lobbying group Financial Services Board , a financial regulatory authority Financial Stability Board, an international group of financial authorities First Somali Bank, a bank headquartered in Mogadishu, Somalia FreningsSparbanken, former name of the retail banking group Swedbank  Schools  Farmer School of Business, at Miami University, Ohio, US Friends School of Baltimore, a Quaker institution in Baltimore, US Fuqua School of Business, at Duke University, North Carolina, US  Other organizations  Federal Security Service Russian: Federal'naya Sluzhba Bezopasnosti, the principal security agency of the Russian Federation Trade Union Social Citizens List , a Danish political group Bolivian Socialist Falange , a Bolivian political party  Military  Fire support base, a temporary military encampment Forward support battalion, a former unit of the US Army  Science and technology  Brinjal fruit and shoot borer ,...
Come One, Come All is the second album by the American band Mighty Blue Kings, released in 1997. The album peaked at No. 10 on Billboard's Top Blues Albums chart. The band supported the album by touring with the Reverend Horton Heat and Face to Face.  Production  The album was produced by the band. It includes covers of songs by Louis Jordan, Joe Liggins, and Percy Mayfield, among others. Six of the 12 tracks are originals by the band. Mighty Blue Kings dropped two members prior to the recording sessions for the album.  Critical reception  The Washington Post wrote that the blues ballads suffer by comparison-seasoning counts for something, after all-but even the album's weakest tracks attest to the band's obvious devotion and good taste. The A.V. Club noted that the album sticks to a relatively rigid Chicago-blues template. The Orange County Register deemed the album more polished than the debut, and concluded that rockabilly is as revered as rabble-rousing swing, but barrel-throated vocalist Ross Bon finely fuses the two with a little crooning here, a lot of hollering there. The Chicago Tribune thought that lead vocalist Ross Bon has developed into a self-assured recording...
Christian Rnn is a Danish musician and composer of electronic music, industrial rock, ambient drone, free form, film music and experimental music in general. As a soloist and in collaborations, Rnn has worked and played with a number of artists. F.ex. Peter Peter, Ikue Mori, Rhyse Chatham, Peter Peter, Ingrid Chavez, Karsten Vogel and many others. Since 1998, he has scored more than 24 feature films and documentaries, and performed live scores to silent films like Metropolis and The Battleship Potemkin, the latter with Peter Peter . These were well received by the Danish press., and the new scores were performed 5 times in all on the Danish music festival Roskilde Festival. As a solo-artist, he has released Time Charged Maneuvers, Broken Air and Chordis et Machina , the latter with Ikue Mori. His less experimental electronic music is primarily written under his moniker Ganga with tracks featured in more than 200 compilations worldwide. As Ganga, he has released 7 CD albums, 4 EPs and 3 12 LPs. Other notable projects are Prox with Jrgen Teller, Blind...
Parliamentary cretinism is a pejorative term within Marxist discourse initially referring fixation on parliamentary proeceedings in political conflict to the exclusion of other things, in particular in the context of socialist politics appealing to exclusively parliamentary means, specifically in the 19th century, associated with claims that it means 'confimenent to an imaginary world'.  Concept  The term parliamentary cretinism was originally coined by Karl Marx in chapter five of his 1852 political book, the Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte, published in 1852 following Louis Napoleon's coup d'tat in France. Marx and Engels considered this a fatal delusion for the socialist movement, believing it would only waste time and allow reactionary forces to grow stronger. Marx, particularly, held the view that parliaments are indirectly representing the interests of classes but resolve problems superficially, with its politics ideologically displaced and abstracted from social conditions. This means, for Marx, that parliamentary cretinism creates an imaginary world without sense, memory, and understanding of the real world. This condition perpetuates...
Frank Dilnot was an English author and journalist, born in Hampshire. He was educated privately and began as a newspaper reporter in 1900 on the staff of the Central News, London, which he left two years later for the Daily Mail . He was editor of the Daily Citizen, a British labour organ , and thereafter was a correspondent for the Daily Chronicle to investigate social and economic conditions in England. In 1916-19, he was president of the Association of Foreign Correspondents in America, and in the latter year, editor of the Globe.  Bibliography  His publications, the majority of which give evidence of thorough insight into social and economic conditions in England, include: The Old Order Changeth: the Passing of Power from the House of Lords Lloyd George the Man and His Story The New America England after the War I Warmed Both Hands His Lord George the Man and His Story had a second edition with three supplementary chapters in 1923 under the title Lloyd George. The undiscriminating admiration of the first edition had distinctly ebbed in the supplementary chapters.  References  Bleiler, Everett 1948...
Cola boxiana is a species of medium tree in the Family Malvaceae. It is endemic to the lowland Eastern Guinean forests, or tropical rainforests, of Ghana. As with many tree species growing in these coastal rainforests, it is threatened by habitat loss.  References 
Bernhard Wehner was a German criminal inspector, Schutzstaffel officer, and journalist. During the postwar period, he was a criminologist and writer for the news magazine Der Spiegel.  Biography  After graduating with a law degree, he joined the Nazi Party in 1931 and the SS in 1940. In 1942, he was promoted to the rank of SS-Hauptsturmfhrer . Wehner worked under Arthur Nebe, chief of the Kripo, which after 27 September 1939 was Department V of the RSHA. Department V was also known as the Reichskriminalpolizeiamt . In 1942, Wehner led sub-department BI a2 within RSHA Department V , to combat capital crimes. That same year, he published a book as to the alleged criminal investigation results of thousands of Polish atrocities against ethnic Germans stating that Poland was responsible for the September 1939 German invasion and occupation of the country. He also took part in the investigation of the death of Reinhard Heydrich in 1942. After the assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler on 20 July 1944, Wehner was flown with three other Berlin criminologists to the Wolf's Lair...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 375 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A web browser, often abbreviated as browser, is an application for accessing websites. When a user requests a web page from a particular website, the browser retrieves its files from a web server and then displays the page on the user's screen. Browsers can also display content stored locally on the user's device. Browsers are used on a range of devices, including desktops, laptops, tablets, smartphones, smartwatches, smart televisions and consoles. As of 2026, the most used browsers worldwide are Google Chrome , Safari , Edge , Firefox , Samsung Browser , and Opera . As of 2023, an estimated 5.4 billion people had used a browser.  Function  The purpose of a web browser is to fetch content and display it on the user's device. This process begins when the user inputs a Uniform Resource Locator , such as https:en.wikipedia.org, into the browser's address bar. Virtually all URLs on the Web start with either http: or https: which means they are retrieved with the Hypertext Transfer Protocol . For secure mode , the connection between the browser and web server is encrypted, providing a secure and private data transfer...
Internet music also known as online music or digital music is a style of music influenced by Internet culture and practices that originated from or were significantly shaped by the Internet, as well as encompassing a wide range of genres and music scenes that have developed primarily online, often outside traditional music industry structures. The earliest roots of music made or distributed on the Internet can be traced back to the late 1980s and early 1990s amongst the tracker music community, Usenet and the demoscene. By the 2000s, several music scenes and genres would proliferate on the Internet through the early online blogosphere, most notable were hypnagogic pop, shitgaze, blog rock, bloghouse and blog rap. By the end of the decade, chillwave emerged as the first music genre to develop primarily on the Internet, the style heralded the early 2010s proliferation of Internet music microgenres, such as vaporwave, which originated as an ironic variant of chillwave. Several online music styles later emerged as microgenres frequently tied to specific Internet aesthetics. Additionally, online forums and blog sites such as Blogspot, Last.fm, 4chan, Tumblr and Reddit alongside early social...
Internet video is digital video that is distributed over the internet. Internet video exists in several formats, the most notable being MPEG-4 AVC, AVCHD, FLV, and MP4. Watching videos has long fascinated audiences, and this interest has driven the development and advancement of video technology. From traditional television sets to personal computers, tablets and smartphones, video has evolved overtime. Internet connectivity has further increased accessibility and convenience, giving rise to a wide range of online video platforms that provide streaming or downloadable content. Some of these platforms include YouTube, Netflix, Hulu and Apple TV. There are several online video hosting services, including YouTube. Since the late 2000s, internet video platforms have been used to stream live events. As a result of the popularity of online video, notable events like the 2012 U.S. presidential debates have been streamed live on the internet. Additionally, internet video has played an important role in the music industry as a medium to watch music videos and increase exposure of songs.  Video file formats  Practical online video streaming was only made possible...
Internet phenomena are social and cultural phenomena specific to the Internet, such as Internet memes, which include popular catchphrases, images, viral videos, and jokes. When such fads and sensations occur online, they tend to grow rapidly and become more widespread because the instant communication facilitates word of mouth transmission. This list focuses on the Internet phenomena which are accessible regardless of local internet regulations.  Advertising and products  15.ai - A free web application launched in 2020 that uses artificial intelligence to generate text-to-speech voices of fictional characters from popular media. The website is credited with popularizing AI voice cloning in memes and content creation. Amazon Coat - An unnamed coat sold on the online store Amazon.com by the Chinese clothing brand Orolay, previously known for its home furnishings. It became a viral phenomenon from the period between December 2018 and the COVID-19 pandemic. Beanie Babies - Cited as being the world's first Internet sensation in 1995. Cerveza Cristal - A Chilean beer company that produced a series of advertisements during a Star Wars original trilogy broadcast in 2003. The commercials...
Internet begging, cyber-begging, e-begging or Internet panhandling is the online version of traditional begging, asking strangers for money to meet basic needs such as food and shelter. Internet begging among strangers differs from street begging in that it can be practiced with relative anonymity, thereby eliminating or reducing the shame and disgrace apparent of begging in public. Internet begging is also commonly done among acquaintances on social media platforms, such as requests for donations from friends and family members to pay for normal educational expenses. A cause website is a cyber-begging site that presents a personal appeal for funds or help.  History  During the early days of the Internet, cyber-begging was evident in the form of personal advertisements for help on local bulletin board systems . As personal websites became more popular, individuals began advertising their needs using the features available through website authoring. Many Internet service providers offered a free homepage along with the basic dial-up connection service to the Internet. For many people, this was an opportunity to create an inexpensive website to host and share their personal...
Rocket Internet SE is a German Internet company headquartered in Berlin. The company builds startups and owns shareholdings in various models of internet retail businesses. The company model is known as a startup studio or a venture builder. It provides office space to new companies at its headquarters in Berlin, with IT support, marketing services and access to investors. As of 2016, Rocket Internet has more than 28,000 employees across its worldwide network of companies, which consists of over 100 entities active in 110 countries. The company's market capitalization was 3.49 billion as of 3 November 2017. On 12 July 2021, the market capitalization was 3.7 billion.  History  The company was founded in Berlin in 2007 by three brothers: Marc, Oliver and Alexander Samwer and was once also connected to the European Founders Fund, an associated company. In 2008, Rocket Internet founded Zalando, emulating the business model of US online retailer Zappos.com. On 1 July 2014, Rocket Internet changed its legal form from a GmbH to an AG . The initial public offering took place on 2 October 2014 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange at 42.50...
The Nucleo Operativo Centrale di Sicurezza is the police tactical unit of the Polizia di Stato, one of Italy's national police forces. It operates under the command of the Direzione Centrale della Polizia di Prevenzione English: Central Directorate for the Anti-Terrorism Police.  History  In 1974, the Chief of the Polizia di Stato Anti-Terrorism Bureau, Emilio Santillo, announced the necessity to establish a tactical unit with the capability to arrest known terrorists and to support the local counter-terrorism field office. Personnel were selected from Police Sports Group Fiamme Oro , particularly trained in martial arts. The 35-man team was denominated counter-commando unit and commanded by Maj. Andrea Sgandurra, an officer with counter-insurgency experiences, and a skilled proponent of hand-to-hand combat skills. After one year of training offensive driving, sniping, various shooting skills, and a tactical assault course in 1975, the unit became operational and immediately started a mission against the left wing terrorist organization NAP Nuclei Armati Proletari, Proletarian Armed Service. Later they operated...
Super Smash Bros. Melee is a 2001 crossover fighting game developed by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the GameCube. It is the second installment in the Super Smash Bros. series. It features characters from Nintendo video game franchises such as Mario, The Legend of Zelda, Star Fox, Pokmon, and Donkey Kong among others. The stages and gameplay modes reference or take designs from these franchises as well. Melee includes all playable characters from the first game and also adds characters from additional franchises such as Fire Emblem, of which no games had been released outside Japan at the time, in addition to new stages and gameplay modes. Like other games in the Smash Bros. series, Melee's gameplay system offers an unorthodox approach to the fighting game genre, with a counter that measures damage with increasing percentages, representing the knockback the character will experience, rather than the depleting health bar seen in most fighting games. Melee was first released in Japan on November 21, 2001, in North America on December 3, 2001, in Europe on May 24, 2002, and Australia on May 31, 2002. The game received widespread acclaim from critics, earning praise for...
General Guido is a town in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. It is the administrative headquarters for General Guido Partido.  External links  Municipal information: Municipal Affairs Federal Institute , Municipal Affairs Secretariat, Ministry of Interior, Argentina.
Daniel L. Hannifin June 12, 1863 in Portland, Dodge County, Wisconsin - ?, was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly. He graduated from high school in Waterloo, Wisconsin. For twelve years he was employed at a teaching school, and was also a farmer. He served as bookkeeper and secretary of the Waterloo Canning and Pickeling Company, and was the town clerk of Portland, Wisconsin.  Career  Hannifin was elected to the Assembly in 1902. Additionally, he served as Clerk of Portland. He was a Democrat.  References   See also  The Political Graveyard
Daniel Keir is an Australian professional rugby league footballer who most recently played as a lock and second-row forward for the South Sydney Rabbitohs in the National Rugby League and NSW Cup.  Career  Keir is the son of former Canberra Raiders, Sydney Roosters and North Sydney Bears Winger Steve Keir. Keir played junior football for the Gungahlin Bulls. In 2016, he was selected for the Australian Schoolboys team while playing for the Canberra Raiders. Keir played for Mounties, feeder club of Canberra, in NSW Cup in 2019. In 2021, Keir signed with the Parramatta Eels to play NSW Cup. In round 21 2024, Keir made his NRL debut against the Melbourne Storm at Commbank Stadium off the bench. Keir played six games for Parramatta in the 2024 season as the club finished 15th on the table. On 17 October 2024 he resigned with the club until 2025. Keir made one appearance for Parramatta in the 2025 NRL season. He would instead play for Parramatta's NSW Cup team. In early September, it was announced that Keir would be departing Parramatta after not being offered a new contract.  References   External links  South Sydney Rabbitohs profile Parramatta...
George Milne, 1st Baron Milne was a British military commander. George Milne may also refer to: George Milne , English cricketer George Heron Milne , American librarian George Lawson Milne , Scottish-born physician and political figure in British Columbia
Kelly Michelle Stables is an American actress. She is known for her television roles, such as Melissa on Two and a Half Men , Eden Konkler on The Exes , and Kelly Watson on Superstore , as well as for her voice acting roles as Will Vandom in the animated adaptation of the comic series W.I.T.C.H. and Arrowette in Young Justice . She also had roles in films The Ring Two , Horrible Bosses 2 and Holiday Twist .  Early life  Kelly Michelle Stables was born on January 26, 1978, in St. Louis, Missouri. She graduated from Lafayette High School, where she was a cheerleader, prom queen and senior class president. Stables graduated from the University of Missouri in Columbia, earning a bachelor's degree in Communication with an emphasis in Television and a minor in Theatre Performance. While at the University of Missouri she was a member of Delta Gamma. In March 2000, she moved to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career.  Career   2000-2010: Early acting roles and breakthrough with The Ring films  Upon arriving in Los Angeles, Stables started working as an extra, including playing a monkey...
Pria may refer to: Pra is a municipality in northern Spain. Pria , a tributary of the Crasna in Slaj County, Romania Pria, a tributary of the Homorod in Hunedoara County, Romania Pria , an insect genus in the family Nitidulidae Pria , a 2017 television episode  See also  PRIA Priya
The Clinchfield Formation is a geologic formation in Georgia. It preserves fossils dating back to the Paleogene period. It preserves the most diverse Eocene fossil turtle assemblage in all of southeastern North America.  See also  List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Georgia Paleontology in Georgia  References  Various Contributors to the Paleobiology Database. Fossilworks: Gateway to the Paleobiology Database. Retrieved 17 December 2021.
Ignasi de Sol-Morales Rubi was an architect, historian and philosopher from Catalonia, Spain. He was professor of composition at the Barcelona School of Architecture, and also taught at the universities of Princeton, Columbia, Turin, and Cambridge. Among his most notable architectural works are the reconstruction of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe's Barcelona Pavilion, and the reconstruction and expansion of the Liceu Theatre in Barcelona. Ignasi de Sol-Morales coined the term terrain vague, applied to free, available, unengaged parts of the city that are, as urban scholar Stefano Bloch puts it, left over as underutilized remnants of capitalist development.  Publications  1975: Rubi i Bellver y la fortuna del Gaudinismo 1976: L'arquitectura del expresionismo 1976: Centenari de l'Escola d'Arquitectura de Barcelona. Un assaig d'interpretaci 1980: Eclecticismo y vanguardia 1983: Gaud 1984: Arquitectura teatral en Espaa 1985: L'Exposici Internacional de Barcelona 1914-1929 1986: Arquitectura Minimale a Barcelona 1986: Contemporary Spanish Architecture 1986: Arquitectura balneria a Catalunya 1996: Diferencias: topografa de l'arquitectura contempornea...
This is a list of bodies that consider themselves to be authorities on standard languages, often called language academies. Language academies are motivated by, or closely associated with, linguistic purism and prestige, and typically publish prescriptive dictionaries, which purport to officiate and prescribe the meaning of words and pronunciations. A language regulator may also have a more descriptive approach, however, while maintaining and promoting a standard spelling. Many language academies are private institutions, although some are governmental bodies in different states, or enjoy some form of government-sanctioned status in one or more countries. There may also be multiple language academies attempting to regulate and codify the same language, sometimes based in different countries and sometimes influenced by political factors. Many world languages have one or more language academies or official language bodies. However, the degree of control that the academies exert over these languages does not render the latter controlled natural languages in the sense that the various kinds of simple English e.g., Basic English, Simplified Technical English or George...
John Speakman was a British politician and trade unionist, who served on London County Council. Born in Erith, Speakman became a tram conductor. He joined the Tram and Bus Workers' Union, from 1897 serving on its executive committee, and from 1900 as the secretary of its Kent branch. In 1903, it merged into the Amalgamated Association of Tramway and Vehicle Workers, and from 1905, Speakman was full-time secretary of the union's London District. He relocated to Deptford, and he was also elected to the union's National Executive Committee. In 1910, Speakman was elected as national president of his union, and in 1912 his role was expanded, as he became secretary of the union's South East Area. In 1919, the union became part of the United Vehicle Workers, and Speakman became the union's Southern Administrator. Three years later, the union became part of the new Transport and General Workers' Union, Speakman becoming an administrative officer. Speakman supported the Labour Party, and was elected to Deptford Metropolitan Borough Council in 1909. He served until 1919, when he was elected to represent Deptford at the 1919 London County Council election. He lost...
Argentina is scheduled to compete at the 2024 Winter Youth Olympics in Gangwon, South Korea, from January 19 to February 1, 2024. This will be Argentina's fourth appearance at the Winter Youth Olympic Games, having competed at every Games since the inaugural edition in 2012. The Argentinian team consisted of seven athletes competing in three sports. Alpine skier Nicolas Quintero was the country's flagbearer during the opening ceremony.  Competitors  The following is the list of number of competitors participating at the games per sportdiscipline.  Alpine skiing  Argentina qualified three alpine skiers . Mixed  Cross-country skiing  Argentina qualified three cross-country skiers . Men Women  Freestyle skiing  Halfpipe, Slopestyle  Big Air  See also  Argentina at the 2024 Summer Olympics  References 
Stephen Edward Bradley is a British former diplomat who was Consul-General to Hong Kong from 2003 to 2008. His term of office ended on 4 April 2008. Earlier, from 1988 to 1993, he served in the Hong Kong Government as Deputy Political Adviser. He is known in Chinese as . As the British Consul General to Hong Kong and Macao, Bradley headed the Consulate General of the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, the largest of Britain's consulates-general and bigger than many embassies, which is responsible for maintaining British ties with Hong Kong and Macao. Bradley began his career in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 1980, and served in Tokyo, Paris and Beijing. Born in New York, Bradley came to Hong Kong in 1977 to visit his then girlfriend, now wife, Elizabeth. The couple have two children, who are both permanent residents of Hong Kong, and one of whom was born in Hong Kong. Bradley himself was also a permanent resident of the territory, before renouncing it to take up the position as Consul-General. He publicly spoke of his intention to re-apply as a Hong Kong Permanent Resident, and to stay in the territory after his retirement. An unprecedented open recruitment exercise...
Kottiyam is a suburban town located at the southern end of Kollam city in Kollam district, Kerala, India. The town is home to many popular educational institutions, hospitals, restaurants, hotels, and retail stores. Kottiyam is strategically located and therefore a regular stopover for long-distance travellers wishing to freshen up during their journeys.  Geographical location  Kottiyam is on the National Highway 66 between Kazhakoottam town and Kollam City. There are regular bus services from Kollam City. It is at a distance of around 12 km from Kollam and 11 km from Paravur. The nearest major railway station is Kollam Junction. Mayyanad and Paravur railway stations are closer, but only some passenger trains and a few express trains halt there. Trivandrum International Airport is the nearest airport, located at a distance of 60 km .  Administration   Kottiyam town and Adichanalloor Panchayath  A major portion of Kottiyam town is located in Adichanalloor Panchayath. Adichanalloor is a special grade grama panchayath in Kollam.  Institutions for higher education  MM NSS COLLEGE, Kottiyam OGTM Skills Academy, Kottiyam S.N Polytechnic College, Kottiyam...
Wyoming Village Historic District is a national historic district located at the Village of Wyoming in Wyoming County, New York. The district covers about 45 acres and is organized as a New England village around a small triangular village green. The T-shaped district includes approximately 72 historic registered structures along two principal streets, Main and Academy Streets. According to the National Register of Historic Places, classes of historic significance include Architecture, Education, SocialHumanitarian and Town Planning. Of interest in architectural classification are: Greek Revival, Victorian, Colonial Revival, Gothic, and French Provincial. The district's NRHP Reference Number is 74001326. The majority of the houses in the historic district date from the second quarter of the 19th century and were mostly built by small tradesman, merchants and retired farmers. The two rows of century-old maples that line Maple Street stand among the simple frame houses. The district's dominant structures are the Presbyterian Church , Fire Tower , Wyoming Inn , Bryant Fleming House and Village Hall . The historic Middlebury Academy has been...
James Bissue is a Ghanaian footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder for Ococias Kyoto.  Career  Bissue began his career with Young Wages F.C. before transferring to Eleven Wise in 2006. On 4 January 2009 he went on a 2-week trial with Blackburn Rovers F.C. of the English Premier League. He moved to Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C. in December 2009, from Eleven Wise of the Ghanaian Premiership. Bissue scored 13 goals in 16 matches for Eleven Wise during the 2013-2014 Division 1 season. On September 18, 2014, Bissue signed a 3-year contract with the Montreal Impact of Major League Soccer. He was training with Ghanaian champions Asante Kotoko but left to sign with the Canadian club. He was released at the end of the season without making a first-team appearance. One Ghanaian source indicated that complications with paperwork prevented the player from appearing for the club. After being released by Montreal, Bissue returned to his native Ghana but failed to secure a contract with a top-flight club. In December 2015, Bissue had been training with Ghana Premier League club Sekondi Hasaacas for three weeks while in discussion over a contract. The...
Helen L. Koss was a member of the Maryland House of Delegates for District 18 and 19, representing Silver Spring, Maryland for sixteen years.  Early life and education  Koss was born Helen Levine in New York City on June 3, 1922. She grew up in Ellenville, New York, graduating from Bennington College in 1942 and moving to Washington, D.C., to work in the school lunch program at the United States Department of Agriculture.  Political career  Koss served as the president of the Maryland League of Women Voters from 1963 to 1967, and she was a delegate to the Maryland Constitutional Convention in 1967 and 1978. She was elected to the Maryland House of Delegates in 1970, serving four terms from 1971 to 1987. From 1971 to 1983, she represented the 19th district and from 1983 to 1987, she represented the 18th district. During her tenure, she worked to pass the Maryland Equal Rights Amendment and legislation to aid displaced homemakers. She proposed the Displaced Homemakers Bill which aimed to train women in skills relevant to work outside the home the bill was passed and a center was created for women to learn and practice these skills. Koss worked...
Public Interest Registry is a not-for-profit 501 corporation based in Reston, Virginia, created by the Internet Society in 2002 to manage the .ORG top-level domain. It took over operation of .ORG in January 2003 and launched the .NGO and .ONG top-level domains in March 2015. In November 2019, it was announced that the Internet Society intends to sell the Public Interest Registry to the private equity investment firm Ethos Capital for 1.135 billion USD. Following concerns raised by the attorney general of California, ICANN decided to reject the sale in April 2020.  Domains   .ORG  .ORG is the third largest generic top-level domain of the Domain Name System used in the internet. .ORG domains have been registered by Public Interest Registry since 2003. Craigslist.org and Wikipedia.org are among the more popular .org users. Since 2009, Public Interest Registry has published a bi-annual report called The Dashboard on the number of registered .ORG domains. There were more than 8 million registered .ORG in 2009, 8.8 million in 2010, and 9.6 million in 2011. Public Interest Registry registered the ten millionth .org domain in June, 2012. In June 2015 there were 10.5 million...
Leucospermum calligerum is a softly hairy shrub, with wand-like branches, entire ovate leaves that have a bony tip of about 25  6 mm , and globular heads of 2-3 cm in diameter, with two to six together near the tip of the branches and flowering in turn, that consist of 4-merous flowers, initially cream-colored, later pink, with the petals curled and the styles 2-2 cm long, sticking out like pins from a cushion. It is called arid pincushion or common louse pincushion in English and rooiluisie in Afrikaans. Well-scented flowers can be found from July to January. It naturally occurs in fynbos in the Northern Cape and Western Cape provinces of South Africa.  Description  Leucospermum calligerum is a shrub of -2 m high and up to 3 m in circumference, with a single main stem at its foot, wand-shaped stems, branching at wide angles, initially horizontal or directly rising up, generally 23-30 centimetres long, 3-5 mm thick when flowering, covered in minute soft crinkly hairs and also with longer soft straight or curvy hairs. Its simple, tough, leathery, grey to olive-colored, oval to long-oval leaves...
Christianity is the largest religion in Venezuela, with Catholicism having the most adherents. Venezuela is a secular nation and its constitution guarantees freedom of religion. Before the arrival of Spanish missionaries, the people residing in the territory of modern-day Venezuela practiced a variety of faiths.  Overview  The influence of the Catholic Church was introduced in its colonization by Spain. According to a 2011 poll , 88 of the population is Christian, primarily Roman Catholic , and the remaining 17 Protestant, primarily Evangelicals in Latin America Protestants are usually called Evanglicos. The Venezuelans without religion are 8 atheist 2 and agnostic or indifferent 6, almost 3 of the population follow other religion . There are small but influential Muslim, Druze, Buddhist, and Jewish communities. The Muslim community of about 95,000 is concentrated among persons of Lebanese and Syrian descent living in Nueva Esparta State, Punto Fijo and the Caracas area Venezuela is home of the largest Druze communities outside the Middle East, and has a significant Druze community from the same countries a former vice...
Ojibwe religion is the traditional Native American religion of the Ojibwe people. Found primarily in north-eastern North America, it is practiced within Ojibwe communities in Canada and the United States. The tradition has no formal leadership or organizational structure and displays much internal variation. Central to Ojibwe religion are powerful spirit beings called the manitouk. These come in various forms, each of which has a different relationship to humanity. Among the most prominent are the animikeek or thunderbirds, who bring storms and are generally helpful to humans, and the Mishebeshu, underwater and underground serpents whose activities are often harmful. In Ojibwe religion, a successful life is one that has secured the support of powerful manitouk, often through the provision of offerings like tobacco. Ojibwe religious practitioners undergo vision quests as a means of establishing a relationship with a particular manitou that becomes their guiding patron prior to the 20th century, almost every Ojibwe male undertook this vision quest when they reached puberty. Ritual specialists, deemed to possess powers from the manitouk, are responsible for healing, locating game, and...
Sunni Islam is the largest religion in Bangladesh and in all of its districts, except Rangamati. Hinduism, Buddhism and Christianity are the other major religions in the country. A few people also follow other religions and denominations such as Shia Islam, Ahmadiyya, Sikhism, Bahai Faith, Jainism, Judaism, Zoroastrianism , Ravidassia , as well as animism and folk religions. The United Nations categorizes Bangladesh as a moderate democratic Muslim country. The Constitution of Bangladesh refers to Islam twice: the document begins with the Islamic phrase Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem Arabic:    , lit. 'In the name of God, the Beneficent, the Merciful' and article , added later, declares that: Islam is the state religion of the republic. However, secularism is also one of the four fundamental principles of the Constitution of Bangladesh since 2011, and the country is mostly governed by secular laws dating from the British colonization. The Constitution guarantees freedom of religion and declares that the State shall ensure equal status and equal right in the practice of the Hindu, Buddhist, Christian and other faiths and religions...
Most people in Belgium do not belong to a religion. Christianity is the largest religion, with the Catholic Church representing the largest community. Catholicism has experienced a significant decline since the 1950s when it was the nominal religion of over 80 of the population. Belgium's policy separates the state from the church, and freedom of religion is guaranteed by the country's constitution. According to the European Social Survey in 2023, people who did not belong to a religion comprised 59 of the Belgian population. The share of Christians was 34, with Catholicism being the largest denomination at 31 of the population. Protestants and other Christians comprised 2 and Orthodox Christians comprised 1. Islam is the second largest religion with 6 of the population being Muslim.  Beliefs and practices  According to a 2010 Eurobarometer poll: 37 of Belgian citizens believe there is a god. 31 believe there is some sort of spirit or life force. 27 do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force. 5 declined to answer. In a 2022 Gallup International Association poll, 32 said that they believed in God, while 42 said that they did not. In a 2023 European...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 387 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A quantum computer is a computer that represents and processes information using quantum states. Quantum computations exploit phenomena such as superposition, interference, and entanglement. Quantum computers have the potential to complete some calculations exponentially faster than classical computers. For example, a large-scale quantum computer could break widely used encryption schemes and aid physicists in performing physical simulations. However, current hardware implementations of quantum computation are largely experimental and suitable for only certain specialized tasks. The basic unit of information in quantum computing, the qubit , serves a similar function as the bit in ordinary or classical computing. Unlike a classical bit, which can be in one of two states , a qubit can exist in a linear combination of states known as a quantum superposition. The result of measuring a qubit is one of the two states, given by a probabilistic rule. If a quantum computer manipulates the qubit in a particular way, wave interference effects amplify the probability of the desired measurement result. Quantum algorithm design involves creating procedures that allow a quantum...
In computer science, a record also called a structure, struct, user-defined type , or compound data type is a composite data structure - a collection of fields, possibly of different data types, typically fixed in number and sequence. For example, a date could be stored as a record containing a numeric year field, a month field represented as a string, and a numeric day-of-month field. A circle record might contain a numeric radius and a center that is a point record containing x and y coordinates. Notable applications include the programming language record type and for row-based storage, data organized as a sequence of records, such as a database table, spreadsheet or comma-separated values file. In general, a record type value is stored in memory and row-based storage is in mass storage. A record type is a data type that describes such values and variables. Most modern programming languages allow the programmer to define new record types. The definition includes specifying the data type of each field and an identifier by which it can be accessed. In type theory, product types are generally preferred due to their simplicity, but...
A default, in computer science, refers to the preexisting value of a user-configurable setting that is assigned to a software application, computer program or device. Such settings are also called factory settings, or factory presets, especially for electronic devices. In the Early Computer Age: When programmers or users failed to provide a specific value or setting, the system would revert to a pre-programmed or standard value. This failure to explicitly define a choice led to that preset value being called the default. Default values are standards values that are universal to all instances of the device or model and intended to make the device as accessible as possible out of the box without necessitating a lengthy configuration process prior to use. The user only has to modify the default settings according to their personal preferences. In many devices, the user has the option to restore these default settings for one or all options. Such an assignment makes the choice of that setting or value more likely, this is called the default effect.  Examples   Application software preferences  One use of default parameters is for initial settings for application software...
In theoretical computer science, an algorithm is correct with respect to a specification if it behaves as specified. Best explored is functional correctness, which refers to the input-output behavior of the algorithm: for each input, it produces an output satisfying the specification. Within the latter notion, partial correctness, requiring that if an answer is returned, it will be correct, is distinguished from total correctness, which additionally requires that an answer is eventually returned, i.e., the algorithm terminates. Correspondingly, to prove a program's total correctness, it is sufficient to prove its partial correctness and its termination. The latter kind of proof can never be fully automated, since the halting problem is undecidable. For example, successively searching through the positive integers to see if we can find an odd perfect number is quite easy to write and is a partially correct program that would find an odd perfect number, if such a number exists . However, to say this program is totally correct i.e., that it will find such a number and terminate would be to assert that an odd perfect number actually exists,...
In software development, an object is a semantic entity that has state, behavior, and identity. An object can model some part of reality or can be an invention of the design process whose collaborations with other such objects serve as the mechanisms that provide some higher-level behavior. Put another way, an object represents an individual, identifiable item, unit, or entity, either real or abstract, with a well-defined role in the problem domain. A programming language can be classified based on its support for objects. A language that provides an encapsulation construct for state, behavior, and identity is classified as object-based. If the language also provides polymorphism and inheritance it is classified as object-oriented. A language that supports creating an object from a class is classified as class-based. A language that supports object creation via a template object is classified as prototype-based. The concept of object is used in many different software contexts, including: Possibly the most common use is in-memory objects in a computer program written in an object-based language. Information systems can be modeled with objects representing their components and interfaces...
The Advanced Placement Computer Science program includes two Advanced Placement courses and examinations covering the field of computer science. They are offered by the College Board to high school students as an opportunity to earn college credit for college-level courses. The program consists of two current courses Computer Science Principles and Computer Science A and one discontinued course . AP Computer Science was taught using Pascal for the 1984-1998 exams, C for 1999-2003, and Java since 2004.  Courses  There are two AP computer science courses currently offered. Computer Science Principles is considered to be a more big picture course than the programming-intensive Computer Science A.  AP Computer Science A  AP Computer Science A is a programming-based course, equivalent to a first-semester-level college course. AP CSA emphasizes object-oriented programming and is taught using the programming language of Java. The course has an emphasis on problem-solving using data structures and algorithms.  AP Computer Science Principles  AP Computer Science Principles is an introductory college-level course in...
Computing is any goal-oriented activity that requires, benefits from, or creates computing machinery. It includes the study and experimentation of algorithmic processes, and the development of both hardware and software. Computing encompasses scientific, engineering, mathematical, technological, and social aspects. Major computing disciplines include computer engineering, computer science, cybersecurity, data science, information systems, information technology, and software engineering. The term computing is also synonymous with counting and calculating. In earlier times, it was used in reference to the action performed by mechanical computing machines, and before that, to human computers.  History  The history of computing predates the history of computing hardware and includes the history of methods intended for pen and paper with or without the aid of tables. Computing is intimately tied to the representation of numbers, though mathematical concepts necessary for computing existed before numeral systems. The earliest known tool for use in computation is the abacus, and it is thought to have been invented in Babylon circa between 2700 and 2300 BC. Abaci...
A computer scientist is a scientist who specializes in the academic study of computer science and technology. Computer scientists typically work on the theoretical side of computation. Although computer scientists can also focus their work and research on specific areas such as algorithm and data structure development and design, software engineering, information theory, database theory, theoretical computer science, numerical analysis, programming language theory, compiler, computer graphics, computer vision, robotics, computer architecture, operating system, their foundation is the theoretical study of computing from which these other fields derive. A primary goal of computer scientists is to develop or validate models, often mathematical, to describe the properties of computational systems processors, programs, computers interacting with people, computers interacting with other computers, etc. with an overall objective of discovering designs that yield useful benefits faster, smaller, cheaper, more precise, etc..  Education  Most computer scientists possess a PhD, M.S., or Bachelor's degree in computer science, in other similar fields like Information and Computer Science...
Logic in computer science covers the overlap between the field of logic and that of computer science. The topic can essentially be divided into three main areas: Theoretical foundations and analysis Use of computer technology to aid logicians Use of concepts from logic for computer applications  Theoretical foundations and analysis  Logic plays a fundamental role in computer science. Some of the key areas of logic that are particularly significant are computability theory , modal logic and category theory. The theory of computation is based on concepts defined by logicians and mathematicians such as Alonzo Church and Alan Turing. Church first showed the existence of algorithmically unsolvable problems using his notion of lambda-definability. Turing gave the first compelling analysis of what can be called a mechanical procedure and Kurt Gdel asserted that he found Turing's analysis perfect. In addition some other major areas of theoretical overlap between logic and computer science are: Gdel's incompleteness theorem proves that any logical system powerful enough to characterize arithmetic will contain statements that can neither be proved...
Polling, or interrogation, refers to actively sampling the status of an external device by a client program as a synchronous activity. Polling is most often used in terms of inputoutput , and is also referred to as polled IO or software-driven IO. A good example of hardware implementation is a watchdog timer.  Description  Polling is the process where the computer or controlling device waits for an external device to check for its readiness or state, often with low-level hardware. For example, when a printer is connected via a parallel port, the computer waits until the printer has received the next character. These processes can be as minute as only reading one bit. This is sometimes used synonymously with 'busy-wait' polling. In this situation, when an IO operation is required, the computer does nothing other than check the status of the IO device until it is ready, at which point the device is accessed. In other words, the computer waits until the device is ready. Polling also refers to the situation where a device is repeatedly checked for readiness, and if it is not, the computer returns to a different task. Although not as wasteful of CPU cycles as busy waiting,...
In computer programming, a macro short for macro instruction from Greek - 'long, large' is a rule or pattern that specifies how a certain input should be mapped to a replacement output. Applying a macro to an input is known as macro expansion. The input and output may be a sequence of lexical tokens or characters, or a syntax tree. Character macros are supported in software applications to make it easy to invoke common command sequences. Token and tree macros are supported in some programming languages to enable code reuse or to extend the language, sometimes for domain-specific languages. Macros are used to make a sequence of computing instructions available to the programmer as a single program statement, making the programming task less tedious and less error-prone. Thus, they are called macros because a big block of code can be expanded from a small sequence of characters. Macros often allow positional or keyword parameters that dictate what the conditional assembler program generates and have been used to create entire programs or program suites according to such variables as operating system, platform or other factors. The term derives from macro instruction...
Milano Affori is a railway station in the Affori neighborhood of Milan, Italy. The present station was opened in 2011, connected to the Affori FN station on Line 3 of the Milan Metro. The old station, which is now closed, was built in 1879 and located about 0.5 km south of the current station.  Services  Milano Affori is served by lines S2, S4 and S12 of the Milan suburban railway network, and by the Milano Cadorna-Asso regional line all the lines are operated by the Lombard railway company Trenord.  References   External links  Media related to Milano Nord Affori train station at Wikimedia Commons
The 2003 Taa de Portugal final was the final match of the 2002-03 Taa de Portugal, the 63rd season of the Taa de Portugal, the premier Portuguese football cup competition organized by the Portuguese Football Federation . The match was played on 15 June 2003 at the Estdio Nacional in Oeiras between Primeira Liga sides Porto and Unio de Leiria. Porto defeated Unio de Leiria 1-0, thanks to a second-half strike from Brazilian striker Derlei. Porto's cup victory would give them a twelfth Taa de Portugal, and seal the treble after winning the Primeira Liga and the UEFA Cup a few weeks before the cup final. In Portugal, the final was televised live on TVI and Sport TV. As Porto claimed both league and cup double in the same season, cup runners-up Unio de Leiria faced their cup final opponents in the 2003 Supertaa Cndido de Oliveira at the Estdio D. Afonso Henriques in Guimares.  Match   Details   See also  2002-03 FC Porto season  References 
WPDE-TV is a television station licensed to Florence, South Carolina, United States, serving the Pee Dee and Grand Strand regions of South Carolina as an affiliate of ABC and The CW. It is owned by Sinclair Broadcast Group alongside WWMB . The two stations share studios on University Boulevard in Conway WPDE-TV's transmitter is located on Pee Dee Church Road in Floydale, South Carolina.  History  On June 24, 1978, Eastern Carolinas Broadcasting, a group of primarily local investors, applied to the Federal Communications Commission to build a new television station on channel 15 in Florence. The FCC granted the application and issued a construction permit to WPDE-TV on March 15, 1979. At the time, the area served by the station was still very rural, allowing Eastern Carolina Broadcasters to apply for a loan from the Farmers Home Administration. Ultimately, the company received nearly 2 million to renovate the former Florence Civic Coliseum on Cashua Drive into a main studio. The loan also enabled the construction of a 2,000-foot tower at Dillon. WPDE debuted on November 22, 1980. It gave Florence its second commercial...
Snells Beach is a small coastal town in the north of Auckland Region in the North Island of New Zealand. It is situated on the eastern coast of the Mahurangi Peninsula and its namesake beach faces east across Kawau Bay to Kawau Island. The nearest town is Warkworth, 8 km to the west, which is linked by 8 buses a day and also Mahu City Express twice a day.  Geography  Snells Beach is an isthmus located on the Mahurangi Peninsula, between the Mahurangi Harbour and Kawau Bay of the Hauraki Gulf. It is located 8 kilometres east of the town of Warkworth, and adjacent to the settlements of Sandspit and Algies Bay. Important seagrass meadows are present on the shallow tidal ecosystem at Snells Beach. The seagrass protects Snells Beach from intense wave action and is an important source of food for protected native wildlife that lives and visits the shoreline.  History   Mori history  The wider Mahurangi area has been settled since at least the 13th century. One of the first known iwi to have settled in the area is Ngi Thuhu. Te Arawa and Tainui migratory waka are known to have visited the area, and descendants of captain Manaia of the Mhuhu-ki-te-rangi waka...
Eduard Clemens Fechner was a German portrait painter and printmaker. Fechner was born at Gross Srchen, near Bad Muskau, and studied in 1814 at Dresden under Grassi and Retsch. In 1820 he went to Munich, where he improved his style under Stieler. He worked some time for the Duke of Leuchtenberg, and visited Paris in 1826. He excelled in painting portraits of ladies and children he also executed eleven etchings in a spirited manner. He died in Paris, aged 61. Fechner was the brother of experimental psychology pioneer and founder of psychophysics, Gustav Fechner. His sister, Clementine Wieck Fechner, was the stepmother of Clara Schumann ne Wieck, the famous pianist and composer, once Clementine married her father, Friedrich Wieck.  See also  List of German painters  Notes   References  This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Bryan, Michael . Fechner, Eduard Clemens. In Graves, Robert Edmund . Bryan's Dictionary of Painters and Engravers . Vol. I . London: George Bell  Sons.
Alvaton is an unincorporated community in Warren County, Kentucky, United States. It is 9.5 miles southeast of Bowling Green, Kentucky on U.S. Route 231. It is home to Alvaton Elementary School, which is part of the Warren County Public Schools system.  References 
The 1955 Indiana Hoosiers football team represented the Indiana Hoosiers in the 1955 Big Ten Conference football season. The Hoosiers played their home games at Memorial Stadium in Bloomington, Indiana. The team was coached by Bernie Crimmins, in his fourth year as head coach of the Hoosiers.  Schedule   1956 NFL draftees   References 
The Ebezde Abdullah Efendi Fountain , also known as the Ebezde Fountain or the Hatice Hanm Fountain, is a fountain located in the Fatih district of Istanbul, Turkey. It was commissioned by Hatice Hanm, the wife of Ebezde Abdullah Efendi, in 1722 or 1723. In 1882 or 1883, it was restored in the name of Kstenceli al-Hajj Ismail Agha and rebuilt in brick. A restoration inscription was added above the original construction inscription. According to a 1943 publication, the fountain was no longer functional at that time and has remained out of use since then. It is located in the Atikali neighborhood. Most of its mirror stone, nozzle, basin, and seating platforms are buried underground. Except for the mirror stone and construction inscription, the fountain consists of a brick wall flanked on both sides by pilasters. Some brick rows on the faade protrude from the rest of the wall. The marble construction inscription above the mirror stone is surrounded on the sides and top by a border made of tiles, some of which still survive today. The inscription text, divided into eight cartouches, is arranged in two columns and four lines. The rectangular...
Gazprom Neftekhim Salavat Russian:   , IPA:  is a Russian petrochemicals company headquartered in the city of Salavat in the Bashkortostan republic of Russia. The company specializes in the processing of hydrocarbons into approximately 150 different petrochemicals, fertilizers and petroleum products, such as gasoline and fuel oil. As of 2025, the company controls three main plants in the city of Salavat, making it the largest petrochemical production complex in Russia. This includes an oil refinery and two other plants that produce monomers and gas-based chemicals. In recent years, the complex has been attacked by Ukrainian drones following the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, and has received criticism for its environmental record from the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources. Until February 2011 the company was known as Salavatnefteorgsintez Russian: , lit. 'Salvat Oil Organic Synthesis'.  History  Plans for a new hydrogenation plant, known as Plant No. 18, were originally conceived for the city of Chernogorsk in Khakassia. The construction of the new plant commenced in 1946, with...
The Museum of Modern Mythology was a museum of pop culture brands located in San Francisco, California. The museum opened in 1982, and closed in 1989 after its building was damaged beyond repair in the Loma Prieta earthquake.  History   Founding  The Museum of Modern Mythology was founded in 1982 by Ellen Havre Weis, Jeffrey Errick and Matthew Cohen. Advertising character artifacts collected by Jeffrey Errick were the genesis of the collection. It was first located in Fisherman's Wharf, San Francisco, where it became a tourist draw.  1982-1989  The MoMM grew to display 3000 objects from the advertising history of the United States. Advertising characters represented in the collection included the Pillsbury Doughboy, Frito Bandito, Col. Sanders, Cap'n Crunch, Mr. Clean, Mr. Peanut, Mr. Bubble, Charlie the Tuna and the Jolly Green Giant. In a 1988 interview with the New York Times, Weis said that The premise of the museum is that these characters quite literally enter our subconscious... They have to be studied for their mythological merit. They are inherent archetypes that we're all familiar with already. In 1986 the MoMM created a hall of fame for living advertising...
Cameron Donald born 28 September 1977 in Melbourne, Australia is a professional motorcycle racer who has raced at the Macau Grand Prix, the North West 200 and the Isle of Man TT races. Donald has not raced at the TT since 2016, but has worked as a television presenter and commentator, also entering the Classic TT, part of the Manx Grand Prix races. He lives in Warrandyte, Victoria, Australia.  Selected achievements  Donald has had many racing achievements, including 1st Victorian Dirt Track Champion 1st Macau Grand Prix - 600cc 1st National Supersport support race Moto GP Phillip Island 1st Australian Formula treme Privateer Cup - 600cc 1st Victorian Supersport Championship 2nd Oceanic Challenge Series NZ - 600cc 2nd Macau Grand Prix - 600CC 1st Privateer in the Australian Formula treme Championship 1st Australian Formula treme Championship 1st Victorian Superbike Championship 1st Macau Grand Prix - 600cc 2nd FIM Asian Road Racing Championship 1st Singapore Enduro Race 1st Newcomer Isle of Man TT - Race 1 - 16th position...
Nikola iri and Goran Toi were the defending champions, but chose not to compete this year. The top two seeds competed for the title, where Marin Draganja and Mate Pavi defeated Alja Bedene and Jaroslav Pospil 7-5, 4-6,  Seeds   Draw  Key  Draw   References  Main draw
Eduard Hedvicek Czech: Eduard Hedvek 17 March 1878 in Kojetn - 12 September 1949 in Vienna was the secretary of Engelbert Dollfu, the Austrian Chancellor before the Anschluss. On 25 July 1934 he unsuccessfully tried to prevent Dollfu's assassination by Otto Planetta. He testified at the trial of the murderers as a Crown witness and was awarded the Gold Medal of Merit Signum Laudis by the Austrian government for his heroic efforts. He was imprisoned by the Nazis after Germany annexed Austria. His imprisonment was a matter of personal revenge for Ernst Kaltenbrunner, the SS-Obergruppenfhrer and Chef der Reichssicherheitshauptamtes of the Nazi government and a famous Austrian Nazi, who himself was involved in Dollfu's assassination and was for this and other crimes hanged after the war.  Publications  Assassination in Vienna, Walter B. Maass, published by Charles Scribners's Sons, New York The Order of the Death's Head: The Story of Hitler's SS, by Heinz Zollin Hhne and Richard Barry Dollfuss, Gordon Brook-Shepherd, published by MacmillanCo Ltd, London, 1961 Prvn zemel kancl, Vladimr Bauman and Miroslav Hladk, Praha, 1968 Na dn byla smrt, Otakar Broek...
Kiruna FF is a Swedish football club located in Kiruna. The men's team competes in Division 2 Norra Norrland, in the Swedish football league system. The women's team competes in the fifth level.  Background  Kiruna FFBoIS was formed on 21 December 1970, when Kiruna AIF, IFK Kiruna, Kebne IK and Kiruna BK merged into one club. Since 2009 the club has been called Kiruna FF. The Men's team plays in Division 3 Norra Norrland and the Ladies team in Division 1. Kiruna FF is Sweden's northernmost football club. The 1991 season was the most successful in the history of the club when Kiruna FF progressed from the Division 1 Norra to compete in the Division 1 Kvalsvenskan which was the highest level of second tier Swedish football. In contrast since 2009 the club have been playing in the fifth tier in Division 3 Norra Norrland following their relegation from Division 2 Norrland in 2008. The club has trained a number of committed and well-trained youth leaders over the years. A key objective is to foster long-term prospective first-team players in accordance with the club's Corporate Plan. Two players from KFF that now compete in the Allsvenskan...
Then I Sentenced Them All to Death Romanian: Atunci i-am condamnat pe toi la moarte is a 1972 Romanian historical and social film about World War II. It was directed by Sergiu Nicolaescu. It was released on 24 August 1972 in Romania.  Plot  The story follows a young boy who is adopted by his older sister, Margareta, and her husband, Father Ioan, after his older brother, a partisan during World War II, is killed by the Sigurana. Ioan is the local village priest and though gentle and intelligent, is frustrated by his ward's apparent inability to love him. The boy, who equally ignores girls his own age, would far rather spend time with Todor, nicknamed Ipu, the so-called village idiot. Together they fish and reenact the French Revolution in the ruins of a neighboring village that was decimated for a minor infraction against the German occupying force. One day the boy watches a German cavalry officer conducting riding practice amid hay bales. Some time later the horse is seen galloping past without a rider and the boy finds the officer's corpse near the road. He reports the murder, but not before surreptitiously stealing the man's pistol. At the funeral, the local German commandant...
Africocypha lacuselephantum Calocypha laidlawi Chlorocypha aphrodite Chlorocypha cancellata Chlorocypha centripunctata Chlorocypha consueta Chlorocypha croceus Chlorocypha curta Chlorocypha cyanifrons Chlorocypha dahli Chlorocypha dispar Chlorocypha frigata Chlorocypha ghesquierei Chlorocypha glauca Chlorocypha grandis Chlorocypha helenae Chlorocypha hintzi Chlorocypha jacksoni Chlorocypha luminosa Chlorocypha molindica Chlorocypha mutans Chlorocypha neptunus Chlorocypha picta Chlorocypha rubida Chlorocypha rubriventris Chlorocypha schmidti Chlorocypha selysi Chlorocypha seydeli Chlorocypha sharpae Chlorocypha tenuis Chlorocypha trifaria Chlorocypha victoriae Chlorocypha wittei Cyrano angustior Cyrano unicolor Disparocypha biedermanni Indocypha leucoura Indocypha silvergliedi Indocypha svenhedini Indocypha vittata Libellago adami Libellago andamanensis Libellago asclepiades libellago aurantiaca Libellago balus Libellago bisignatus Libellago blanda Libellago celebensis Libellago daviesi Libellago dorsocyana Libellago finalis Libellago greeni Libellago hyalina Libellago manganitu Libellago miae Libellago mima Libellago naias Libellago orri Libellago phaethon Libellago rufescens Libellago...
Off the Mark, also known as Crazy Legs, is a 1987 American comedy film directed by Bill Berry and starring Mark Neely, Terry Farrell, Clarence Gilyard Jr., Norman Alden and Virginia Capers. The musical score was composed by David Michael Frank.  Cast  Mark Neely Terry Farrell Clarence Gilyard Jr. Norman Alden Virginia Capers Jon Cypher Barry Corbin Alexander Polinsky Susan Luck Darius Lawrence Melanie Lasher Kelly Meadows Matthew Licht Patrick Campbell  References   External links  Off the Mark at IMDb Off the Mark at Rotten Tomatoes
Michael Hanlon was a British science writer and newspaper science editor.  Early life  Hanlon was born in Bristol and grew up on the Dorset coast. He studied Earth Sciences at university.  Career  Hanlon was the Science page editor at the Daily Telegraph having previously been Science Editor at the Daily Mail, and author of articles for the Daily Express, the Independent and Irish News. He also contributed on a regular basis to several magazines, including the Spectator. He was often seen on television, or heard on the radio, as an expert in explaining science to the general public. The Guardian called Hanlon a top science writer. Hanlon turned heads, including that of Ed West, when he abandoned his skepticism about global warming. According to the Daily Telegraph, this followed a visit to the Greenland ice cap when he saw the extent of the melt for himself.  Books  The Worlds of Galileo: A Jovian Odyssey , co-authored with Arthur C. Clarke. The Real Mars The Science of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy 10 Questions Science Can't Answer : A Guide to Science's Greatest Mysteries Eternity: Our Next...
Vulturu is a commune located in the southeastern part of Vrancea County, Romania. It is composed of five villages: Borlu, Hnguleti, Maluri, Vadu-Roca, and Vulturu. The commune is located in the southeastern part of the county, on the border with Galai County. It is situated in the extreme northeast of the Wallachian Plain, where the Putna River flows into the Siret River.  History  In December 1957-January 1958, during the Communist era, the peasants from Vadu-Roca and nearby Suraia and Rstoaca resisted the collectivization of agriculture. The bloodiest repression of a series of peasant revolts against collectivization in Romania took place in Vadu Roca. Nine peasants from the area were shot dead, and 17 were wounded 73 were tried and sentenced to long prison terms.  References 
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 399 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Elixir is a functional, concurrent, high-level general-purpose programming language that runs on the BEAM virtual machine, which is also used to implement the Erlang programming language. Elixir builds on top of Erlang and shares the same abstractions for building distributed, fault-tolerant applications. Elixir also provides tooling and an extensible design. The latter is supported by compile-time metaprogramming with macros and polymorphism via protocols. The community organizes yearly events in the United States, Europe, and Japan, as well as minor local events and conferences.  History  Jos Valim created the Elixir programming language as a research and development project at Plataformatec. His goals were to enable higher extensibility and productivity in the Erlang VM while maintaining compatibility with Erlang's ecosystem. Elixir is aimed at large-scale sites and apps. It uses features of Ruby, Erlang, and Clojure to develop a high-concurrency and low-latency language. It was designed to handle large data volumes. Elixir is also used in telecommunications, e-commerce, and finance. In 2021, the Numerical Elixir effort was announced with the goal of bringing machine learning...
A domain-specific language is a programming language specialized to a specific application domain. This is in contrast to a general-purpose programming language, which is broadly applicable across domains. There are a wide variety of DSLs, ranging from widely used languages, such as SQL, down to languages used by only one or a few pieces of software, such as MUSH soft code. Simpler DSLs, specifically ones used by a single application, are sometimes informally called mini-languages. The line between general-purpose languages and domain-specific languages is not always sharp, as a language may have specialized features for a given domain, but be applicable more broadly, or conversely may in principle be capable of broad application but in practice used mainly for a specific domain. For example, Perl was originally developed as a text-processing and glue language, for the same domain as AWK and shell scripts, but was mostly used as a general-purpose programming language later on. In contrast, PostScript is a Turing-complete language, and in principle can be used for any task, but in practice is narrowly used as a page description language. Metaprogramming can involve the creation...
SNOBOL is a series of programming languages developed between 1962 and 1967 at ATT Bell Laboratories by David J. Farber, Ralph Griswold and Ivan P. Polonsky, culminating in SNOBOL4. It was one of a number of text-string-oriented languages developed during the 1950s and 1960s others included COMIT and TRAC. Despite the similar name, it is entirely unlike COBOL. SNOBOL4 stands apart from most programming languages of its era by having patterns as a first-class data type, a data type whose values can be manipulated in all ways permitted to any other data type in the programming language, and by providing operators for pattern concatenation and alternation. SNOBOL4 patterns are a type of object and admit various manipulations, much like later object-oriented languages such as JavaScript whose patterns are known as regular expressions. In addition SNOBOL4 strings generated during execution can be treated as programs and either interpreted or compiled and executed as in the eval function of other languages. SNOBOL4 was quite widely taught in larger U.S. universities in the late 1960s and early 1970s and was widely used in the 1970s and 1980s as...
A low-level programming language is a programming language that provides little or no abstraction from a computer's instruction set architecture, memory or underlying physical hardware commands or functions in the language are structurally similar to a processor's instructions. These languages provide the programmer with full control over program memory and the underlying machine code instructions. Because of the low level of abstraction between the language and machine language, low-level languages are sometimes described as being close to the hardware.  Machine code  Machine code, classified as a first-generation programming language, is data encoded and structured per the instruction set architecture of a CPU. The instructions imply operations such as moving values in and out of memory locations, Boolean logic, arithmetic, comparing values, and flow control . Programmers almost never program directly in machine code instead, they use an assembly language or a higher-level programming language like C, C,C, etc. Although few programs are written in machine languages, some programmers learn to read it through experience...
Programming languages can be grouped by the number and types of paradigms supported.  Paradigm summaries  A concise reference for the programming paradigms listed in this article. Concurrent programming - have language constructs for concurrency, these may involve multi-threading, support for distributed computing, message passing, shared resources , or futures Actor programming - concurrent computation with actors that make local decisions in response to the environment capable of selfish or competitive behaviour Constraint programming - relations between variables are expressed as constraints , directing allowable solutions uses constraint satisfaction or simplex algorithm Dataflow programming - forced recalculation of formulas when data values change Declarative programming - describes what computation should perform, without specifying detailed state changes cf. imperative programming functional and logic programming are major subgroups of declarative programming Distributed programming - have support for multiple autonomous computers that communicate via computer networks Functional programming - uses...
Kafr Nan Arabic: , romanized: Kafrnan, also spelled Kfarnan is a village in northern Syria, administratively part of the Homs Governorate, located north of Homs.  Surroundings  Nearby localities include Burj Qa'i to the west, Kisin to the northwest, Gharnatah to the northeast, al-Zaafaraniyah to the east, Talbiseh to the southeast, Tasnin to the south and Akrad Dayasinah to the southeast.  Population  According to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics , Kafr Nan had a population of 3,231 in the 2004 census. Its inhabitants are predominantly Alawites.  History  In 1838, its inhabitants were recorded to be Sunni Muslims.  References   Bibliography 
Denis Pankratov Russian:   born 4 July 1974 is a retired Russian butterfly swimmer of the 1990s, who was best known for winning the butterfly double at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States in a unique style. His 100 m butterfly triumph is particularly remembered for his swimming over 25 m of the first lap underwater and then 15 m in the opposite direction, also underwater. Two-time Swimming World Swimmer of the Year. In 2004 he was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame . He trained at the Volgograd club with fellow individual gold medallist at Swimming World Swimmer of the Year Yevgeny Sadovyi.  Biography  Pankratov was born in Volgograd, Soviet Union. At the age of 16, in 1990 and again in 1991, he won the Junior European Championships in the butterfly. In his first international appearance at senior level, he placed 6th in the final of the 200 m butterfly at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. In 1993, at the European Championships in Sheffield, Pankratov won his first international medals, with gold medals in the 200 m butterfly and 4100 m medley relay and a silver medal in the 100 m butterfly. He repeated this performance...
Abraham Jacobus Pienaar is a South African-born American cricketer who plays for the Washington Freedom. He was the leading run-scorer in the 2017-18 Sunfoil 3-Day Cup for South Western Districts, with 909 runs in ten matches. He was also the leading run-scorer in the 2018-19 CSA 3-Day Provincial Cup, with 957 runs in ten matches, and the leading run-scorer for South Western Districts in the 2018-19 CSA Provincial One-Day Challenge, with 505 runs in nine matches. In September 2019, Pienaar was named in Northern Cape's squad for the 2019-20 CSA Provincial T20 Cup. In June 2021, he was selected to take part in the Minor League Cricket tournament in the United States following the players' draft.  References   External links  Obus Pienaar at Cricinfo
The 63rd United States Congress was a meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government, composed of the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives. It met in Washington, D.C. from March 4, 1913, to March 4, 1915, during the first two years of Woodrow Wilson's presidency. The apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives was based on the 1910 United States census. The Democrats had greatly increased their majority in the House, and won control of the Senate, giving them full control of Congress for the first time since the 53rd Congress in 1893. With Woodrow Wilson being sworn in as president on March 4, 1913, this gave the Democrats an overall federal government trifecta - also for the first time since the 53rd Congress.  Major events  March 4, 1913: Woodrow Wilson became President of the United States. March 9, 1914: The Senate adopted a rule forbidding smoking on the floor of the Senate because Senator Ben Tillman, recovering from a stroke, found the smoke irritating. July 28, 1914: World War I began in Europe August 15, 1914: The Panama Canal was inaugurated August 19, 1914: President Woodrow Wilson declared strict...
Albert Mangaratua Tambunan was the chairman and the general secretary of the Indonesian Christian Party, and the first deputy speaker of the People's Representative Council, serving for two terms. He was also famous for being the only Christian representative in the Working Body of the Central Indonesian National Committee.  Early life  Albert Mangaratua Tambunan was born in Tarutung, North Sumatra, Dutch East Indies on 25 September 1910. He went to the high school of law in 1940. After finishing his study, he went to work at the Jakarta High Court as a clerk, and as a judge in the Cirebon High Court.  Political career   In the Indonesian Christian Party  Tambunan begin his career in the Indonesian legislative when he was chosen in the Working Body of the Central Indonesian National Committee as a regional delegation on 27 November 1945. He became its member until the dissolution of the committee. He went to be the deputy speaker of the People's Representative Council of the United States of Indonesia, and the Provisional People's Representative Council. In the 1955 Indonesian legislative elections, he was elected as the member of the...
The Wollongong Group, Inc. , was one of the first companies to sell commercial software products based on the Unix operating system. It was founded to market a port of Unix Version 6 developed by researchers at the University of Wollongong, Australia . The company was active in Palo Alto, California from 1980 to 1995. It later achieved name recognition as a pioneer in developing and selling commercial versions of the TCPIP protocols. The Wollongong Group had annual sales of 40 million and employed 165 people when it was acquired by former competitor Attachmate in 1995.  Commercializing TCPIP and the Internet  Virtually all Wollongong's products were initially based on versions of software that had been developed at Universities and released into the public domain. Wollongong products included: Eunice - A UNI emulator for the VA VMS operating system based on software written by David Kashtan at SRI individual TCPIP packages for: the VA VMS operating system ATT UNI Version 7. the IBM PC Individual licensing arrangements were made with brand...
Lenis Paulista is a municipality in the Central West region of the state of So Paulo. The population is 68,990 in an area of 810 km2 . The elevation is 550 m. It is home of the largest library in the interior of the State of So Paulo, an institution of higher learning, and a SENAI technical school.  History  The city was founded on April 28, 1858. It was originally named Lenis, but a 1940s' decree by then Brazilian president Getlio Vargas determined that there could be no homonymous cities in Brazil, and since there was already an older city called Lenis , the city was renamed Lenis Paulista. The original proposal was to rename it Ubirama, but the population wanted to keep the original name.  Geography  The territory is drained by waters of the Lenis River, which is also the source responsible for the water supply of the city. The climate is subtropical, with maximum temperatures around 38 C between November and February, and minimum temperatures around 3 C between June and August. The lowest temperature ever recorded was -7C. The neighboring municipalities of Lenis Paulista are Macatuba, Pederneiras and Agudos to the...
The Old Blue Coat School is a building in the city centre of Coventry, England. It was built in 1856 on the site of the Priory of St Mary, and is currently used by the Holy Trinity Church.  History  The Blue Coat School was founded in the early 18th century to provide housing, food and education for girls in Coventry until they were 16 years old. It originally occupied the north-west tower of the Priory of St Mary, the only part to survive the Dissolution of the Monasteries. The school buildings were extended and modified through the late 18th and early 19th centuries, but were in poor condition when a major rebuilding took place in 1856-7. The building as it stands today was designed by James Murray in a Gothic style to resemble a French chteau. The school occupied the building until 1964 when it moved to a new site in Terry Road, Coventry. The building lay empty and fell into disrepair until 2000, when it was renovated for use by the nearby Holy Trinity Church. The building was Grade II listed on 5 February 1955, for reasons of architectural interest, historical interest and group value with the other buildings on the site of the old priory.  References 
The Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area is a federally designated National Heritage Area encompassing portions of 14 counties in New Jersey that were the scene of significant actions in the American Revolutionary War in late 1776 through 1778. The designated area covers the Delaware and Hudson valleys in New Jersey and the central portion of the state between the valleys where the Continental Army fought forces under British command. The National Heritage Area includes Morristown National Historical Park and sites associated with the Battle of Monmouth as well as Princeton, New Jersey, the meeting place of the Continental Congress when peace was declared in 1783. At the direction of Congress, the National Park Service studied the national importance of the Revolutionary War resources in New Jersey. In 2002 the United States Secretary of the Interior told Congress that New Jersey met all the requirements for becoming a National Heritage Area. President George W. Bush signed the legislation making RDS an official heritage area in 2006. The territory covered by RDS includes the following counties from north to south: Passaic, Bergen, Morris, Essex, Hudson...
Filippo Antonio Gualterio was made a papal nuncio to France and a cardinal of the Catholic Church from 1706.  Life  Descended from the ancient Gualterio family of Orvieto related to Pope Innocent , he was the uncle of Cardinal Luigi Gualterio. Born at Fermo, whose archdiocese was governed by his grand-uncle Cardinal Carlo Gualterio, he was the eldest of 17 children of Stanislao Gualterio, Gonfaloniere of Orvieto, and Anna Maria Cioli, noble of Todi. He received doctorates at the University of Fermo in philosophy, theology, and utroque iure, both canon and civil law.  In France  Beginning in 1685, when he was made Governor of San Severino, he served in various governorates of the Papal States until he was sent as Vice-legate to Avignon , where he carried himself so well he was made papal nuncio to the court of King Louis IV of France in April 1700, in preparation for which he was made titular archbishop of Atena at the end of March. On 16 May 1700, he was consecrated bishop by Franois de Mailly, Archbishop of Arles. Another member of his family, Sebastiano Gualterio, had already served as nuncio to France in 1554. An...
Ephysteris diminutella is a moth in the family Gelechiidae. It was described by Zeller in 1847. It is found in Spain, France, Italy, Romania, North Macedonia, Greece and Russia, as well as on Sicily. Outside of Europe, it is found in North Africa and Palestine.  References 
Why Freud Was Wrong: Sin, Science and Psychoanalysis 1995 second edition 1996 third edition 2005 is a book by Richard Webster, in which the author provides a critique of Sigmund Freud and psychoanalysis, and attempts to develop his own theory of human nature. Webster argues that Freud became a kind of Messiah and that psychoanalysis is a pseudoscience and a disguised continuation of the Judaeo-Christian tradition. Webster endorses Gilbert Ryle's arguments against mentalist philosophies in The Concept of Mind , and criticizes many other authors for their treatment of Freud and psychoanalysis. The book for which Webster may be best remembered, it has been called brilliant and definitive, but has also been criticized for shortcomings of scholarship and argument. It formed part of the Freud wars, an ongoing controversy around psychoanalysis.  Summary  Webster argues that Freud became a kind of Messiah and that psychoanalysis is a pseudoscience and a disguised continuation of the Judaeo-Christian tradition. He describes psychoanalysis as perhaps the most complex and successful pseudoscience in history, and Freud as an impostor who sought to found a false religion. However...
The men's bi-fins 50 m event in finswimming at the 2017 World Games took place on 22 July 2017 at the Orbita Indoor Swimming Pool in Wrocaw, Poland.  Competition format  A total of 8 athletes entered the competition. Only final was held.  Results   Final   References 
Sir Harry Work Melville, was a British chemist, academic, and academic administrator, who specialised in polymer research. He spent his early career in academia as a lecturer and researcher, before moving into administration as a civil servant and university college head. He was a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, from 1933 to 1944, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen from 1945 to 1947, and Mason Professor of Chemistry at the University of Birmingham from 1948 to 1956. Having moved into administration, he was permanent secretary of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research from 1956 to 1965, chairman of the Science Research Council from 1965 to 1967, and principal of Queen Mary College from 1967 to 1976. Melvin was elected to the fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and of the Royal Society. He was awarded Meldola Medal by the Institute of Chemistry and the Davy Medal by the Royal Society. He gave the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures in 1955 and the Royal Society's Bakerian Lecture in 1956. He was knighted as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1958.  Early life and education  Melville was born...
Dirk Franciscus Danny Blind k frnsskz dni blnt born 1 August 1961 is a Dutch former football player and coach. He played as a defender for Sparta Rotterdam, Ajax and the Netherlands national team. As coach he has managed Ajax and the Netherlands national team. He is one of only two Dutch players, together with Arnold Mhren, to have won all UEFA club competitions.  Playing career   Club career  Blind made his professional football debut on 29 August 1979 with Sparta Rotterdam. He stayed under contract with Sparta for seven seasons when in July 1986 he transferred to Ajax, attracted there by manager Johan Cruyff. Blind's signing, however, was much to the chagrin of Ajax superstar Marco van Basten, who was upset that his manager had brought in a relatively unknown, defensive player, instead of investing on a big-name transfer. With Ajax, Blind amassed an impressive trophy list, winning all three European trophies UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1987, the UEFA Cup in 1992 and the UEFA Champions League in 1995. He also secured the Intercontinental Cup in 1995 against Brazil's Grmio by scoring the winning penalty in the penalty shoot-out. Blind...
Qiemo Airport was an airport serving Qiemo Town in injiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, China. After passenger service to the airport ended in 2011, a 2012 CAAC report stated that Qiemo Airport had been closed. It was replaced by Qiemo Yudu Airport in December 2016, where Qiemo Town regained commercial air service.  History  Qiemo Airport received its last passenger flights in 2011. In the same year, civil aviation officials in injiang announced that a new airport would be built to serve Qiemo Town. In its 2012 Civil Aviation Development Statistics Bulletin, the CAAC reported that Qiemo Airport had been closed. The new airport, Qiemo Yudu Airport, opened on 19 December 2016, where commercial air service to Qiemo Town resumed. The new airport has a runway longer than that of Qiemo Airport.  Infrastructure  The airport resided at an elevation of 1,252 metres above mean sea level. It had one paved runway with dimensions 1,700 by 25 metres .  References 
Basic Books is a book publisher founded in 1950 and located in New York City, now an imprint of Hachette Book Group. It publishes books in the fields of psychology, philosophy, economics, science, politics, sociology, current affairs, and history.  History  Basic Books originated as a small Greenwich Village-based book club marketed to psychoanalysts. Arthur Rosenthal took over the book club in 1950, and under his ownership it soon began producing original books, mostly in the behavioral sciences. Early successes included Ernest Jones's The Life and Work of Sigmund Freud, as well as works by Claude Lvi-Strauss, Jean Piaget and Erik Erikson. The godfather of neoconservatism, Irving Kristol, joined Basic Books in 1960, and helped Basic to expand into the social sciences. Harper  Row purchased the company in 1969. In 1997, HarperCollins announced that it would merge Basic Books into its trade publishing program, effectively closing the imprint and ending its publishing of serious academic books. That same year, Basic was purchased by the newly created Perseus Books Group. Perseus's publishing business was acquired by Hachette Book Group in 2016. In 2018, Seal Press became an imprint...
Surplus economics is the study of economics based upon the concept that economies operate on the basis of the production of a surplus over basic needs. Surplus economics is a heterodox economic theory that centres on the implications of economic surplus-production beyond essential needs-and its role in shaping modern exchange economies. Contrary to the orthodox economic focus on scarcity, surplus economics argues that the real economic challenge is managing the consequences of abundance, including inequality, consumption, and motivation. The theory proposes that modern capitalism functions not to allocate scarce resources efficiently, but to absorb and destroy surplus through patterns of production and exchange.  Overview  Traditional economic thought, particularly neoclassical economics, assumes that resources are scarce and that markets function to allocate them efficiently. Surplus economics challenges this premise, contending that modern economies routinely produce more than is needed for survival. This surplus gives rise to new dynamics: exchange becomes the primary mode through which surplus is given value, and the economy evolves to prioritise processes that continually absorb...
Economics of networks is a discipline in the fields of economics and network sciences. It is primarily concerned with the understanding of economic phenomena by using network concepts and the tools of network science. Prominent authors in the field include Sanjeev Goyal, Matthew O. Jackson, and Rachel Kranton. This term should not be confused with network economics or network externality.  Models of networked markets  The concept of networks enables a better understanding of the functioning of markets. On the border of network science and market theory, several models have emerged to explain different aspects in markets.  Exchange theory  Exchange theory explains how economic transactions, trade in favor, communication of information, or other exchanges are affected by the structure of the relationships among the involved participants. The main idea is that the act of exchange is influenced by the agents' opportunities and their environment. For example, the position of a given agent in the network can endorse them with the power in the auctions and deals they make with their partners.  Bilateral Trading Models  As part of exchange theory, bilateral trading models consider...
Health Economics is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal published by John Wiley  Sons, covering the subject of health economics. It was established in 1992. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2023 impact factor of 2.0, ranking it 60th out of 118 journals in the category Health Policy  Services, 92nd out of 174 journals in the category Health Care Sciences  Services, and 207th out of 600 journals in the category Economics,  See also  Journal of Health Economics List of scholarly journals in economics  References   External links  Official website
Hoarding is by definition the action of storing or hiding treasure. Word root is derived from french, german, and english. The action of hoard is purely to store one's treasure or coveted items. There is no emotional connection to the word hoard with exception to the expectation that one safeguards their private property.  Comparison with investing  Investing refers to the act of temporarily allocating funds in an entity such as stocks, property, and other financial schemes with the intention of generating a profit as the value of the investment appreciates over time. The term hoarding may include the practice of obtaining and holding resources to create artificial scarcity, thus reducing the supply, thereby increasing the price, so that resource can be sold for profit. Artificial scarcity may also be used to help corner a market, by reducing competition via the creation of a barrier to entry. This reduction in competition could allow a monopoly or oligopoly to form. Unlike investing, which commonly involves providing corporations with money to be spent on manufacturing goods and services, hoarded stockpiles are not active in the economy. Economist Mathias Binswanger classifies...
Ricardian economics are the economic theories of David Ricardo, an English political economist born in 1772 who made a fortune as a stockbroker and loan broker. At the age of 27, he read An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith and was energised by the theories of economics. His main economic ideas are contained in On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation . This set out a series of theories which would later become theoretical underpinnings of both Marx's Das Kapital and Marshallian economics, including the theory of economic rent, the labour theory of value and above all the theory of comparative advantage. Ricardo wrote his first economic article ten years after reading Adam Smith and ultimately, the bullion controversy gave him fame in the economic community for his theory on inflation in 19th-century England. This theory became known as monetarism, the theory that excess currency leads to inflation. He also played a part in the emergence of classical economics, which meant he fought for free trade and free competition without government interference by enforcing laws or restrictions.  The law of diminishing returns  Another...
Principles of Economics may refer to a number of texts by different academic economists: Grundstze der Volkswirtschaftslehre by Carl Menger, the first to use the title, dropping political from the term political economy Principles of Economics by Alfred Marshall Principles of Economics by N. Gregory Mankiw, a popular contemporary and introductory economics text
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 411 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
iOS is a mobile operating system developed by Apple Inc. and was first released in June 2007 alongside the first generation iPhone. iPhone OS was renamed iOS following the release of the iPad starting with iOS 4. With iOS 13, Apple began offering a separate operating system, iPadOS, for the iPad. iOS is also the foundation of watchOS and tvOS, and shares some of its code with macOS. New iOS versions are released yearly, alongside new iPhone models. From the launch of the iPhone in 2007 until the launch of iPhone 4 in 2010, this occurred in June or July since then, new major versions are usually released in September, with the exception of iOS 5, which released in October 2011. Since the launch of the iPhone in June 2007, there have been twenty major versions of iOS, with the current major version being iOS 27 which was released on September 14, 2026.  Overview   Releases   iPhone OS 1  iPhone OS 1 was announced on January 9, 2007, alongside the first-generation iPhone, with both releasing on June 29. The operating system lacked an official name upon release, with Steve Jobs being quoted as saying iPhone runs OS  however it was later referred to...
Windows 11 is a major release of the Windows NT operating system developed by Microsoft that was released in October 2021. Starting with Windows 10, Microsoft described Windows as an operating system as a service that would receive ongoing updates to its features and functionality, augmented with the ability for enterprise environments to receive non-critical updates at a slower pace or use long-term support milestones that will only receive critical updates, such as security patches, over their five-year lifespan of mainstream support.  Overview  As with Windows 10 , mainstream builds of Windows 11 are labeled YYH, with YY representing the two-digit year and  representing the half-year of planned release for example, version 21H2 refers to builds which initially released in the second half of 2021.  Version history   Version 21H2  The original version of Windows 11 also known as version 21H2 and codenamed Sun Valley was released in October 2021. It carries the build number 10.0.22000.The first public preview build was made available to Windows Insiders who opted in to the Dev Channel on June 28, 2021. Notable changes in...
Versioning may refer to: Version control, the management of changes to documents, computer programs, large web sites, and other collections of information Versioning file system, which allows a computer file to exist in several versions at the same time Software versioning, the process of assigning either unique version names or numbers to unique states of computer software  See also  Version
Microsoft Delta is a discontinued commercial source control program developed by Microsoft. It was publicly released in 1993 and was designed to help PC developers manage application source code, track file revisions, and coordinate updates among developers. Microsoft discontinued the public version of the product in 1994 after the company acquired One Tree Software and its competing source control product, SourceSafe.  History  In the 1980s, Microsoft created an internal source control system called Source Library Manager to manage the development of its increasingly complex software products. The tool, abbreviated SLM , was designed for DOS, OS2, and UNI environments. It functioned by maintaining a central master copy of a project and allowed individual developers to work on private local copies. Developers would periodically install their changes into the master source, while others could synchronize their local copies to incorporate those updates. This workflow supported a model that allowed multiple users to modify different sections of the same file at the same time, which could then be merged together. Building on the SLM codebase, Microsoft developed...
Craig Chester is an American astronomer who co-founded the Monterey Institute for Research in Astronomy in the Los Padres National Forest in California along with five other astronomy students from Case Western Reserve University and three non-astronomers. Chester suggested that the Star of Bethlehem was a real historical event, and that Jupiter's stationary point during apparent retrograde motion could explain the Star's stopping over Bethlehem, He wrote an article which helped inspire The Star of Bethlehem documentary. Chester developed software for satellite communications and ground equipment for the United States military. He was president of MIRA in 2016.  Career  In 1963, Craig Chester became a member of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific as a student at Harvard College. For his undergraduate research about classifying galaxies he created a color-magnitude diagram for the Virgo Cluster and field galaxies by using Erik Holmberg's catalogue of photometric data. Chester earned his Ph.D in astronomy from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio when jobs in astronomy were challenging to find. The future availability of federal funds for investigating...
This is a list of some of the cemeteries in New Zealand.  North Island   Whangarei District  Maunu Cemetery also Kaurihorore, Onerahi, Kamo, Ngunguru, Whangarei Heads, Kioreroa, Mission Ground, Whananaki, Marua  Auckland  Auckland Memorial Park Birkenhead-Glenfield Cemetery Hillsborough Cemetery Mangere Lawn Cemetery Manukau Memorial Gardens North Shore Memorial Park Papakura Cemetery Papakura South Cemetery Pukekohe Cemetery Purewa Cemetery St Peter's in the Forest Cemetery Symonds Street Cemetery Waikumete Cemetery Waiuku Cemetery  Wellington  Wellington City Bolton Street Memorial Park Karori Cemetery Makara Cemetery Mount Street Cemetery also Johnsonville Methodist Cemetery, St John's Anglican Church , St Mary's Anglican Church , Linden Cemetery, St Matthias , Holy Trinity Anglican Church , Ohariu Valley Catholic Cemetery, Tawa Anglican Churchyard. Hutt City Tait Cemetery also Christ Church , Wesleyan Cemetery , Knox Presbyterian Church , Korokoro Catholic Cemetery, Owhiti Maori Cemetery , St James Anglican Church , Te Puni Cemetery Petone...
The 2nd Devonshire Artillery Volunteers was a unit of the British Volunteer Force and Territorial Army. The unit and its successors defended Plymouth Dockyard and the Devon coast from 1861 to 1961.  Origin  The 2nd Administrative Brigade, Devonshire Artillery Volunteers was formed at Devonport, Plymouth on 3 January 1861 as a headquarters for a number of Artillery Volunteer Corps that had been raised in Devonshire in response to the invasion scare of 1859. A 1st Administrative Brigade had been formed the previous year, but the number of units in the county had continued to grow and they were split between the two headquarters. The 2nd Admin Brigade took the units in the western part of the county and was based at Devonport, Plymouth, with the following composition: 6th Devonshire AVC, raised 25 January 1860 transferred from 1st to 2nd Administrative Brigade in January 1861 10th Devonshire AVC, raised 7 July 1860 transferred from 1st to 2nd Administrative Brigade in January 1861 12th Devonshire AVC, raised 20 December 1860 transferred from 1st to 2nd Administrative Brigade in February 1862 13th Devonshire AVC, raised...
Venice is a census-designated place in Douglas County, Nebraska, United States. The population was 75 at the 2020 Census. 40 people are male and 35 are female. The area is 0.60 sq. miles. The population density is 125.09 peoplesq. mi. The land area is 0.48 sq. miles. The water area is 0.12 sq. miles.  Demographics   Racial and ethnic composition   References 
Tabi are traditional Japanese socks worn with thonged footwear such as zori, dating back to the 15th century.  History  Japanese tabi are usually understood today to be a kind of split-toed sock that is not meant to be worn alone outdoors, much like regular socks. However, tabi were originally a kind of leather shoe made from an animal hide, as evidenced by historical usage and the earlier form of the word, tanbi, written , with the kanji literally signifying single hide. As Japanese footwear evolved, tabi also changed, with the split-toe design emerging towards the late Heian period to allow the wearer to accommodate the thong of sandals. Outdoor versions of tabi involved some kind of reinforcement, with soles traditionally made of cloth, leather, or straw. Brothers Tokujir Ishibashi and Shjir Ishibashi, founders of the tyre company Bridgestone, are credited with the invention of rubber-soled jika-tabi in 1922 these are now the dominant form of outdoor tabi, and the term tabi generally refers to the indoor form.  Use  Tabi are worn by both men and women with traditional formal footwear such as zori, and sometimes the less-formal geta. Tabi are typically...
Stauren or Syltefjordstauran is a mountain cliff in Btsfjord Municipality in Finnmark County, Norway. It is located along the northern coast of the Syltefjorden, about 10 kilometres northeast of the abandoned village of Nordfjord. The 222-metre tall mountain cliff runs for a length of about 3 kilometres along the shore. It is among the largest bird cliffs in Finnmark county. The cliff hosts the largest colony of black-legged kittiwake in Northern Europe as well as a large colony of northern gannet.  References 
Pedret is a Spanish surname. Notable people with the surname include: Ferran Pedret , Spanish lawyer, politician, and writer Jess Pedret , Spanish footballer Jordi Pedret , Catalan lawyer and politician Toms Padr Pedret , Catalan painter, graphic artist, and illustrator  See also  Pedret i Marz, a municipality in the comarca of Alt Empord, Girona, Catalonia
Tranquility is an unincorporated community in Adams County, in the U.S. state of Ohio.  History  Tranquility had its start in the 1830s when a country store opened there. A post office was established at Tranquility in 1848, and remained in operation until 1912.  References 
The 1985 World Table Tennis Championships - Corbillon Cup was the 31st edition of the women's team championship. China won the gold medal defeating North Korea 3-0 in the final, South Korea won the bronze medal.  Medalists   Final tables   Group A   Group B   Semifinals   Third-place playoff   Final   See also  List of World Table Tennis Championships medalists  References 
Deutschland. Ein Sommermrchen is a 2006 documentary film written, filmed and directed by Snke Wortmann. The film records the Germany national football team's World Cup 2006 journey, from their boot camp in Sardinia to the match for third place with Portugal. The title refers ironically to Heinrich Heine's poem Germany. A Winter's Tale. In contrast to Heine's melancholic view on Germany, Ein Sommermrchen illustrates the sanguine and optimistic atmosphere during the 2006 World Cup. The film premiered in October 2006, German Unity Day. By the end November 2006, around four million people had seen the film in German cinemas, making it the most commercially successful German documentary film. The film was shown on 6 December 2006 on German public TV channel ARD, and was viewed by more than 10 million people. The DVD was released on 8 February 2007. Parts of the proceeds of the film's merchandising are earmarked for SOS Children's Villages.  Technical sheet  Original title : Deutschland. Ein Sommermrchen Directed by: Snke Wortmann Written by: Snke Wortmann Cinematography: Snke Wortmann and Frank Griebe Sound: Henry Mayr Editing: Melania Singer, Christian...
Carrigaholt is a parish in County Clare, Ireland, and part of the Cois Fharraige grouping of parishes within the Roman Catholic Diocese of Killaloe. The history of the parish is a complicated one. In the time of Father Michael Meehan Loop Head formed just one parish under the name of Moyarta and Kilballyowen. Before 1817 it was known as Kilballyowen. In 1878 it was split into the parishes of Cross and Carrigaholt . That recreated the medieval parishes in that area. The main church of the parish is the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Carrigaholt. The site for this church was donated by the local landlord Francis N. Burton. The cruciform church was built in the period 1832-1834. The second church of the parish is the Church of the Holy Spirit in Doonaha. This church was built in 1808. The parish contains ruins of several very old churches. According to Westropp the church ruins in Kilcredaun are from the 10th11th century. The church in Kilcrony is already mentioned in a listing from 1390.  References 
IdeologicalPolitical Organization or Bureau of FARAJA Persian:     Aghidati-Siasi is one of three virtually independent hierarchical systems inside Law Enforcement Force of Islamic Republic of Iran, alongside its Command system and the Intelligence Protection Organization. Director of the organization is directly appointed by the Supreme Leader of Iran. The IdeologicalPolitical organizations of Iranian armed forces are taught to indoctrinate the personnel with Islamic and political training aligned with the Supreme Leader's guidelines. The organization is supervised by clerics.  Heads  Mohammad-Ali Rahmani Aboutorab Bahrami Alireza Adyani Ali Shirazi  References 
Fitzgerald Creek is a rural locality in the Cassowary Coast Region, Queensland, Australia. In the 2021 census, Fitzgerald Creek had a population of 98 people.  Geography  The Johnstone River bounds the locality to the south-east and east.  Demographics  In the 2011 census, Fitzgerald Creek had a population of 195 people. In the 2016 census, Fitzgerald Creek had a population of 81 people. In the 2021 census, Fitzgerald Creek had a population of 98 people.  Education  There are no schools in Fitzgerald Creek. The nearest government primary school is Goondi State School in Goondi Bend to the south-east. The nearest government secondary school is Innisfail State College in Innisfail Estate to the east. There are also non-government schools in Innisfail and its suburbs.  References 
Fabio Cianchetti is an Italian cinematographer. He contributed to more than seventy films since 1983, including The Tiger and the Snow, The Beast in the Heart and The Dreamers.  Awards  David di Donatello for Best Cinematography  References   External links  Fabio Cianchetti at IMDb
Maria Signorelli Rome, 17 November 1908 - Rome, 9 July 1992 was an Italian puppet master known for her creations as well as for her sets and costume designs, and valuable collection of puppets.  Biography  Maria Signorelli was the first of three daughters born to the radiologist and art collector Angelo Signorelli and Olga Resnevi , a Latvian physician and writer, translator of Fydor Dostoevsky, and writer of the first biography about Italian actor Eleonora Duse. Maria grew up in a stimulating family environment, in close contact with the artists and patrons of theater and literature who often frequented the family home in Rome. Signorelli's father made a habit of helping young artists, taking care of them for free and purchasing or subsidizing their works. He was also one of the main financiers of the Teatro dei Piccoli, led by Vittorio Podrecca, who specialized in the use of puppets and who later became a collaborator protecting Maria Signorelli's valuable puppet collection.  Education  After completing her classical studies, Maria enrolled in the Accademia di Belle Arti of Rome and began to attend the scenography studio of the Royal Theater, directed...
Matthew James Giteau is an Australian former rugby union professional player. Giteau plays as a utility back. His usual positions are inside centre and fly-half, although he started his career as a scrum-half. He played for the Wallabies for the first time in 2002 against England at Twickenham and was a nominee for the International Rugby Board Player of the Year in 2004. He appeared in 104 Super Rugby matches. During his career he won 103 test caps for Australia. He was re-selected to the national team after several years' absence under a rule known as Giteau's law.  Personal life  Giteau attended St Edmund's College, Canberra, which has produced other Wallabies including George Gregan, Matt Henjak and Ricky Stuart. His father, Ron Giteau, is a former professional rugby league footballer, and his older sister Kristy Giteau is a dual-code rugby international for Australia. On 11 December 2010, Matt Giteau married Bianca Franklin, a former netball player with the Adelaide Thunderbirds. They have three children: Levi, Kai, and Winter.  Playing career   2001-05  Giteau made his debut for the ACT Brumbies in 2001 and the Wallabies in 2002. During this...
The Harvard architecture is a computer architecture with separate storage and signal pathways for instructions and data. It is often contrasted with the von Neumann architecture, where program instructions and data share the same memory and pathways. The Harvard architecture is often used in real-time processing or low-power applications. The term is often stated as having originated from the Harvard Mark I relay-based computer, which stored instructions on punched tape and data in electro-mechanical counters. These early machines had data storage entirely contained within the central processing unit, and provided no access to the instruction storage as data. Programs needed to be loaded by an operator the processor could not initialize itself. The concept of the Harvard architecture has been questioned by some researchers. According to a peer-reviewed paper on the topic published in 2022, The term 'Harvard architecture' was coined decades later, in the context of microcontroller design and only retrospectively applied to the Harvard machines and subsequently applied to RISC microprocessors with separated caches The so-called 'Harvard' and 'von Neumann' architectures...
Network architecture is the design of a computer network. It is a framework for the specification of a network's physical components and their functional organization and configuration, its operational principles and procedures, as well as communication protocols used. In telecommunications, the specification of a network architecture may also include a detailed description of products and services delivered via a communications network, as well as detailed rate and billing structures under which services are compensated. The network architecture of the Internet is predominantly expressed by its use of the Internet protocol suite, rather than a specific model for interconnecting networks or nodes in the network, or the usage of specific types of hardware links.  OSI model  The Open Systems Interconnection model defines and codifies the concept of layered network architecture. Abstraction layers are used to subdivide a communications system further into smaller manageable parts. A layer is a collection of similar functions that provide services to the layer above it and receives services from the layer below it. On each layer, an instance provides services to the instances...
The Tudor architectural style is the term for English architecture in the Tudor period . This was a time of architectural transition, as the Gothic Perpendicular style was gradually replaced by a Renaissance aesthetic derived from Italy via France and the Low Countries. Coupled with the change from Gothic to Renaissance forms was a shift from religious to secular architecture, due to the impact of the English Reformation. A subtype of Tudor architecture is Elizabethan architecture, from about 1560 to 1600, which has continuity with the subsequent Jacobean architecture in the early Stuart period. The low pointed Tudor arch was another defining feature. Some of the most remarkable oriel windows belong to this period. Mouldings are more spread out and the foliage becomes more naturalistic. During the reigns of Henry VIII and Edward VI, many Italian artists arrived in England their decorative features can be seen at Hampton Court Palace, Layer Marney Tower, Sutton Place, and elsewhere. However, in the following reign of Elizabeth I, the influence of Northern Mannerism, mainly derived from pattern books, was greater. Courtiers and other wealthy Elizabethans competed to build...
Church architecture refers to the architecture of Christian buildings, such as churches, chapels, convents, and seminaries. It has evolved over the two thousand years of the Christian religion, partly by innovation and partly by borrowing other architectural styles as well as responding to changing beliefs, practices and local traditions. From Early Christianity to the present, the most significant objects of transformation for Christian architecture and design were the great churches of Byzantium, the Romanesque abbey churches, Gothic cathedrals and Renaissance basilicas with their emphasis on harmony. These large, often ornate and architecturally prestigious buildings were dominant features of the towns and countryside in which they stood. However, far more numerous were the parish churches in Christendom, the focus of Christian devotion in every town and village. While a few are counted as sublime works of architecture to equal the great cathedrals and churches, the majority developed along simpler lines, showing great regional diversity and often demonstrating local vernacular technology and decoration. Buildings were at first from those originally intended for other purposes but...
Victorian architecture is a series of architectural revival styles in the mid-to-late 19th century. Victorian refers to the reign of Queen Victoria , called the Victorian era, during which period the styles known as Victorian were used in construction. However, many elements of what is typically termed Victorian architecture did not become popular until later in Victoria's reign, roughly from 1850 and later. The styles often included interpretations and eclectic revivals of historic styles . The name represents the British and French custom of naming architectural styles for a reigning monarch. Within this naming and classification scheme, it followed Georgian architecture and later Regency architecture and was succeeded by Edwardian architecture. Although Victoria did not reign over the United States, the term is often used for American styles and buildings from the same period, as well as those from the British Empire.  Victorian architecture in the United Kingdom   Gothic Revival  During the early 19th century, the romantic medieval Gothic Revival style was developed as a reaction to the symmetry of Palladianism, and such buildings as Fonthill...
Gothic Revival also referred to as Victorian Gothic or Neo-Gothic is an architectural movement that after a gradual build-up beginning in the second half of the 17th century became a widespread movement in the first half of the 19th century, mostly in England. Increasingly serious and learned admirers sought to revive medieval Gothic architecture, intending to complement or even supersede the neoclassical styles prevalent at the time. Gothic Revival draws upon features of medieval examples, including decorative patterns, finials, lancet windows, and hood moulds. By the middle of the 19th century, Gothic Revival had become the pre-eminent architectural style in the Western world, only to begin to fall out of fashion in the 1880s and early 1890s. For some in England, the Gothic Revival movement had roots that were intertwined with philosophical movements associated with Catholicism and a re-awakening of high church or Anglo-Catholic belief concerned by the growth of religious nonconformism. The Anglo-Catholic tradition of religious belief and style became known for its intrinsic appeal in the third quarter of the 19th century. Gothic Revival architecture varied considerably in its...
A mascaron is an ornament in the form of a face used in architecture and the decorative arts. Originally intended to frighten evil spirits from entering a building, the compositional element became purely decorative, usually human in appearance, sometimes chimeric. The most recent architectural styles to extensively employ it were Beaux Arts and Art Nouveau. In addition to architecture, mascarons are used in the other applied arts.  Types   Green Man  In the 11th century, European stonemasons decorating churches began carving a stylized foliate mascaron in the form of a man's face, reminiscent of a style that had appeared in green ceramic tile as early as the Byzantine era. Known today for convenience as the Green Man, it was believed by early 20th-century scholars the image secretly represented a surviving pre-Christian god. Today, few scholars hold this, and instead interpret the Green Man as a symbol of rebirth, representing the cycle of new growth that occurs every spring.  Bucranium  A bucranium is an ox skull mascaron, usually used in Antiquity, for decorating funerary and commemorative monuments. The motif originated in a ceremony wherein an...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 423 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Quantum programming refers to the process of designing and implementing algorithms that operate on quantum systems, typically using quantum circuits composed of quantum gates, measurements, and classical control logic. These circuits are developed to manipulate quantum states for specific computational tasks or experimental outcomes. Quantum programs may be executed on quantum processors, simulated on classical hardware, or implemented through laboratory instrumentation for research purposes. When working with quantum processor-based systems, quantum programming languages provide high-level abstractions to express quantum algorithms efficiently. These languages often integrate with classical programming environments and support hybrid quantum-classical workflows. The development of quantum software has been strongly influenced by the open-source community, with many toolkits and frameworks-such as Qrisp, Qiskit, Cirq, PennyLane, and qBraid SDK-available under open licenses. Quantum programming can also be used to model or control experimental systems through quantum instrumentation and sensor-based platforms. While some quantum computing architectures-such as linear optical quantum...
Gleam is a general-purpose, concurrent, functional, high-level programming language that compiles to Erlang or JavaScript source code. Gleam is a statically-typed language, which is different from the most popular languages that run on Erlang's virtual machine BEAM, Erlang and Elixir. Gleam has its own type-safe implementation of OTP, Erlang's actor framework. Packages are provided using the Hex package manager, and an index for finding packages written for Gleam is available.  History  Gleam was originally created in 2016 by Louis Pilfold for a conference talk. It was later redesigned and adapted into what it is today. The first numbered version of Gleam was released on April 15, 2019. Compiling to JavaScript was introduced with version v0.16. In 2023 the Erlang Ecosystem Foundation funded the creation of a course for learning Gleam on the learning platform Exercism. Version v1.0.0 was released on March 4, 2024. In April 2025, Thoughtworks added Gleam to its Technology Radar in the Assess ring .  Adoption  Gleam has seen some adoption in recent years. According to a blog post, the language creators have placed strong emphasis on developer...
Raku is a member of the Perl family of programming languages. Formerly named Perl 6, it was renamed in October 2019. Raku introduces elements of many modern and historical languages. Compatibility with Perl was not a goal, though a compatibility mode is part of the specification. The design process for Raku began in 2000.  History  In Perl 6, we decided it would be better to fix the language than fix the user. The Raku design process was first announced on 19 July 2000, on the fourth day of that year's Perl Conference, by Larry Wall in his State of the Onion 2000 talk. At that time, the primary goals were to remove historical warts from the language easy things should stay easy, hard things should get easier, and impossible things should get hard and a general cleanup of the internal design and application programming interfaces . The process began with a series of Request for Comments . This process was open to all contributors, and left no aspect of the language closed to change. Once the RFC process was complete, Wall reviewed and classified each of the 361 requests received. He then began the process of writing several Apocalypses, using the original meaning...
Lua is a lightweight, high-level, multi-paradigm programming language designed mainly for embedded use in applications. Lua is cross-platform software, since the interpreter of compiled bytecode is written in ANSI C, and Lua has a relatively simple C application programming interface to embed it into applications. Lua originated in 1993 as a language for extending software applications to meet the increasing demand for customization at the time. It provided the basic facilities of most procedural programming languages, but more complicated or domain-specific features were not included rather, it included mechanisms for extending the language, allowing programmers to implement such features. As Lua was intended to be a general embeddable extension language, the designers of Lua focused on improving its speed, portability, extensibility and ease-of-use in development.  History  Lua was created in 1993 by Roberto Ierusalimschy, Luiz Henrique de Figueiredo, and Waldemar Celes, members of the Computer Graphics Technology Group at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil. From 1977 until 1992, Brazil had a policy of strong trade barriers called...
Swift is a high-level general-purpose, multi-paradigm, compiled programming language created by Chris Lattner in 2010 for Apple Inc. and maintained by the open-source community. Swift compiles to machine code and uses an LLVM-based compiler. Swift was first released in June 2014 and the Swift toolchain has shipped in code since code version 6, released in September 2014. Apple intended Swift to support many core concepts associated with Objective-C, notably dynamic dispatch, widespread late binding, extensible programming, and similar features, but in a safer way, making it easier to catch software bugs Swift has features addressing some common programming errors like null pointer dereferencing and provides syntactic sugar to help avoid the pyramid of doom. Swift supports the concept of protocol extensibility, an extensibility system that can be applied to types, structs and classes, which Apple promotes as a real change in programming paradigms they term protocol-oriented programming . Swift was introduced at Apple's 2014 Worldwide Developers Conference . It underwent an upgrade to version 1.2 during 2014 and a major upgrade to Swift...
C is a high-level, general-purpose programming language created by Danish computer scientist Bjarne Stroustrup. First released in 1985 as an extension of the C programming language, adding object-oriented functionality and later expanding significantly with the addition of functional programming features. It supports low-level memory manipulation for systems like microcomputers and has been used for the creation and maintenance of Microsoft Windows. C has also added support for generic programming through the use of templates. It is usually implemented as a compiled language, and many vendors provide C compilers, including the Free Software Foundation, LLVM, Microsoft, Intel, Embarcadero, Oracle, and IBM. C was designed with systems programming and embedded, resource-constrained software and large systems in mind, with performance, efficiency, and flexibility of use as its design highlights. C has also been found useful in many other contexts, with key strengths being software infrastructure and resource-constrained applications, including desktop applications, video games, servers e.g., e-commerce, web search, or databases, and performance-critical applications e...
Ahn Byong-man was a South Korean academic, and the former President of Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. He received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the Seoul National University in 1964 and 1967, and went on to the University of Florida for doctoral studies, graduating in 1973. In 1975 he joined the faculty of Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in Seoul, South Korea. While at this institution he served as the Dean of Student Affairs, Dean of the Graduate School, and in 1994 he was named president. He served in this capacity until 2004. Ahn was a Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence at the University of Delaware, and received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from the University of Delaware in 2004. He was also a visiting professor at the university. He also received a University of Florida Distinguished Alumnus Award in May 2005. A non-party politician, he served as Minister for Education, Science and Technology in the Lee Myung-bak government from 6 August 2008 until 30 August 2010. During his tenure, he pushed through an ambitious reform of English-as-a-foreign-language education in South Korea to reduce the reliance on hagwon in teaching...
Ban Mung is a subdistrict in the Noen Maprang District of Phitsanulok Province, Thailand.  Geography  The subdistrict lies within the Nan Basin, which is part of the Chao Phraya Watershed.  Administration  The following is a list of the subdistrict's mubans, which roughly correspond to villages:  References 
Lina Ivanovna Prokofieva , born Carolina Codina Nemsskaia, was a Spanish singer and the first wife of Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev. They married in 1923. Despite misgivings about her husband's decision to move to the Soviet Union, she settled there with him in 1936. They separated in 1941. In 1948, their marriage was ruled null and void, a verdict that was upheld in 1958 by the Supreme Court of the USSR. Her stage name was Lina Llubera.  Early life  Carolina Codina was born in Madrid on 21 October 1897 to Olga Vladislavovna and Juan Codina y Llubera. Her mother was a Russian of Polish, Lithuanian, and Alsatian ancestry her father was a Spaniard born to a Catalan family in Barcelona. Both of her parents were singers and they met while studying singing in Milan at the Theatre Academy of La Scala. In 1899, Carolina traveled to Russia with her parents. Along the way they stayed with family friends in Moscow and Saint Petersburg, before arriving at her maternal grandparents' home in Odessa, where her grandfather worked for the Imperial Ministry of Railways. Although her father suffered from...
The 1928 Texas AM Aggies football team represented the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas-now known as Texas AM University-in the Southwest Conference during the 1928 college football season. In its 11th season under head coach Dana . Bible, the team compiled an overall record of 5-4-1, with a mark of 1-3-1 in conference play, and finished sixth in the SWC.  Schedule   References 
Teatro Verdi may refer to: Teatro Verdi , Brindisi Teatro Giuseppe Verdi, Busseto Teatro Verdi , Florence Teatro Verdi , Padova, by architect Achille Sfondrini Teatro Verdi , Pisa Teatro Verdi , Salerno Teatro Verdi , San Severo Teatro Verdi , Sassari Teatro Lirico Giuseppe Verdi, Trieste  See also  Memorials to Giuseppe Verdi
Noise-induced order is a mathematical phenomenon appearing in the Matsumoto-Tsuda model of the Belosov-Zhabotinski reaction. In this model, adding noise to the system causes a transition from a chaotic behaviour to a more ordered behaviour this article was a seminal paper in the area and generated a big number of citations and gave birth to a line of research in applied mathematics and physics. This phenomenon was later observed in the Belosov-Zhabotinsky reaction.  Mathematical background  Interpolating experimental data from the Belosouv-Zabotinsky reaction, Matsumoto and Tsuda introduced a one-dimensional model, a random dynamical system with uniform additive noise, driven by the map: T    a   x  1 8 ...
This list is of the intangible cultural heritage of Armenia Armenian:       as drawn up and published by The Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport of the Republic of Armenia.  Background  The Republic of Armenia ratified the UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage on 18 May 2006. On 7 October 2009, Armenia adopted its domestic Law on Intangible Cultural Heritage. Defining the nation's intangible cultural heritage as the customs, traditions, rites, representations and expressions, knowledge and skills, as well as the instruments, objects, artefacts and cultural spaces associated therewith, the Law applies to fourteen domains: Folklore language and dialects oral traditions Folk music Folk dance Folk theatre Folk holidays Folk life cycle customs Relationship customs Popular beliefs and customs Folk practices Economic life skills Representations and knowledge of Nature National cuisine National games Traditional cratsmanship  List of Intangible Cultural Heritage  As of 2025, and after the 2021, 2022, and 2023 additions to the 2010 list, there were...
Herne Bay and Sandwich is a constituency of the House of Commons in the UK Parliament. Further to the completion of the 2023 Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, it was contested for the first time at the 2024 general election. It is represented by Roger Gale, of the Conservatives, who was MP for the predecessor seat of North Thanet from 1983 to 2024. The constituency is named for the towns of Herne Bay and Sandwich in Kent.  Constituency profile  The Herne Bay and Sandwich constituency is located in Kent and contains the mostly rural areas lying between Canterbury and the Isle of Thanet. Its largest settlement is the coastal town of Herne Bay, which has a population of around 40,000 when taken together with the connected village of Herne. The constituency also covers the seaside resorts of Westgate-on-Sea and Birchington-on-Sea to the east of Herne Bay. These coastal towns, like many similar towns in England, experienced economic decline during the late 20th century with the decrease in domestic tourism. Deprivation in these areas is above average. The inland, rural part of the constituency includes the small town of Sandwich and the villages of Minster-in-Thanet and...
Tha'ran Ya'ub Yuhan'im was a ruler of the ancient Kingdoms of Saba' and Dhu-Raydan, which was located in present-day Yemen. The earliest mention of Tha'ran is in inscriptions from 155 CE as part of a co-regency with his father, Dhamar Ali Yahbur. He succeeded his father around 175 and ruled alone until 214.  Reign   Co-regency  Tha'ran entered power firstly as a co-regent under his father, Dhamar Ali Yahbur. There are two inscriptions regarding the Sabaeans pledging allegiance to Tha'ran and Dhamar Ali found at the important Sabean religious site, the Temple of Awwam. Father and son ordered repairs for the Ma'rib Dam during their co-reign.  Single reign  Tha'ran took power as a single ruler around 175. Eventually, he stylized his throne name as Tha'ran Ya'ub Yuhan'im. He also became affiliated with the tribe of Himyar. In 180-185 CE, the rebel prince Rabb Shams Nimran launched war on Himyar's lands as a retaliation against the actions of Tha'ran Ya'ub Yuhan'im. In 212, Tha'ran sent a diplomatic delegation to the Kingdom of Hadhramaut to congratulate its new ruler, Il'azz Yalit II. His rule ended in 214 Lazm Yanuf Yuhasd'iq taking the throne in...
Pete Donnelly is an American bass player, singer, songwriter and founding member of The Figgs. Born in Saratoga Springs, New York, Donnelly is based in Philadelphia. In November 2007 Donnelly began playing with keyboardist Terry Adams, a founder of NRBQ, in the Terry Adams Rock  Roll Quartet. Adams rechristened the band NRBQ in March 2011. Donnelly played in the group until September 2012. Donnelly has also worked with Soul Asylum, Tommy Stinson, Mike Viola and the Candy Butchers and others. In 2015, Grammy Winning artist Shelby Lynne released her album, I Can't Imagine, the title track was co-written by Donnelly. Donnelly released his first solo album Another Day On You in 1999, reissued in 2016 as an expanded edition. He released his second solo album When You Come Home, in December 2011 featuring guest appearances from Britta Phillips, Dave Pirner and Tommy Ardolino. His third solo album, Face the Bird, which features his son on one track, was released in 2013. His latest releases and more information can be found on Pete Donnelly Music.  References 
Western Heights is a neighbourhood of Henderson, in West Auckland, New Zealand. Western Heights School and the nearby shops are the centre of the community. Western Heights is a frontier suburb, separating suburban Auckland from lifestyle farming blocks, orchards and the Waitkere Ranges. Part of the area was called Summerland, from an export apple grown in local orchards in the mid-20th century.  History  In the 1920s, the area was sparsely populated. The Sturges Road area was home to orchards, primarily grown by immigrant families from Dalmatia.  Demographics  Western Heights covers 3.25 km2 and had an estimated population of 10,020 as of June 2025, with a population density of 3,083 people per km2. Western Heights had a population of 9,291 in the 2023 New Zealand census, a decrease of 33 people since the 2018 census, and an increase of 780 people since the 2013 census. There were 4,575 males, 4,704 females and 18 people of other genders in 2,817 dwellings. 1.9 of people identified as LGBTIQ. There were 1,785 people aged under 15 years, 1,755 aged 15 to 29, 4,473 aged 30 to 64, and 1,278 aged 65 or older. People...
Mohamad Wahid Supriyadi is an Indonesian diplomat who served as an Ambassador to Russia and Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates .  Early life and education  Wahid was born in Winong, Kebumen on 18 August 1959. His father was a teacher. During his childhood, he had an ambition to become a dalang because of his passion for watching wayang . He enrolled in private junior high school in Prembun and later on the SMA Negeri 1 Purworejo , taking language stream and graduating in 1977. He studied English literature at Gadjah Mada University and earned a B.A. degree in 1983. Later, he took Applied Business major at Swinburne University of Technology and graduated in 2000.  Teaching career  Wahid commenced his teaching career by becoming an English teacher at a cram school when he was a student at Gadjah Mada. Through this work, he could pay his university tuition and assist his three little brothers and sisters. He then worked as an English teacher at Muhammadiyah II High School in Yogyakarta from 1981 to 1984. Afterward, he worked as an English lecturer at Pancasila...
The arrondissement of Saint-Brieuc is an arrondissement of France in the Ctes-d'Armor department in the Brittany region. It has 113 communes. Its population is 274,111 , and its area is 2,696.0 km2 .  Composition  The communes of the arrondissement of Saint-Brieuc, and their INSEE codes, are:  History  The arrondissement Saint-Brieuc of was created in 1800. At the January 2017 reorganisation of the arrondissements of Ctes-d'Armor, it gained 25 communes from the arrondissement of Dinan and five communes from the arrondissement of Guingamp, and it lost 29 communes to the arrondissement of Guingamp. As a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements. The cantons of the arrondissement of Saint-Brieuc were, as of January 2015:  References 
The 2021-22 RFU Championship was the thirteenth season of the RFU Championship, the professional second tier of rugby union in England. It featured ten English teams and one from Jersey. Saracens are the reigning champions and were promoted to the Premiership.  Structure  In a return to the structure used prior to 2020-21, the eleven teams played each of the other teams twice. There was no end of season play-off and as no team met the minimum standards criteria, no team was promoted to Premiership Rugby. For the second consecutive year no team was relegated from the league.  RFU funding  For the second year in a row each club will receive approximately 161,500 in funding from the RFU as part of the reduction of funding introduced ahead of the 2016-17 season. Last season, following news of the funding change, several clubs announced a switch to a semi-professional business model.  Teams  Ten of the eleven teams played in last season's competition. Saracens having beaten Ealing Trailfinders in the 2020-21 final were promoted into Premiership Rugby with no team relegated. London Scottish returned to the league following a one-year hiatus due to the costs associated with the...
The 12th Mechanized Infantry Division Evros Greek:      Dodekati Mihanokiniti Merarhia Pezikou EVROS is a military formation of the Hellenic Army, based at Alexandroupolis, Thrace.  History  The division was formed in the reorganization and expansion of the Hellenic Army following the Balkan Wars of 1912-13. It was activated on 23 December 1913 at Kozani, comprising the 31st, 32nd, 33rd Infantry Regiments and the II Mountain Artillery Battalion. It formed part of III Army Corps. The original formation was disbanded during the National Schism and did not take part in any engagements during World War I. In February 1920, the anthi Division was formed at Thessaloniki from Thracian recruits, whence its naming after the city of anthi. Commanded by Major General Konstantinos Mazarakis-Ainian, it comprised the 13th, 14th, 15th Infantry Regiments, the II Mountain Artillery Regiment and other divisional units. In May 1920, the division took part in the Greek takeover of Western Thrace, after which it was shipped to Anatolia where it took part in the Greek offensive operations against the Turkish nationalist...
Douglass B. Sutherland , is an American politician who served as 14th commissioner of public lands of the state of Washington from 2001 to 2009. Sutherland was first elected to this statewide position in 2000, when he defeated former Governor Mike Lowry. He was re-elected in 2004, defeating challenger Mike Cooper. In 2008, Sutherland ran for a third term, but lost to Peter J. Goldmark, a rancher from Eastern Washington. He was mayor of Tacoma from 1982 to 1989.  Early life and education  Born in Montana in 1937, Sutherland moved to Spokane, Washington as a child. His father was a union plasterer. As a student at Central Washington University, Sutherland spent his summers fighting wildfires in the forests of Northern California and Oregon as a smokejumper. Sutherland graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history.  Career  Sutherland spent eleven working at Boeing. In 1971, Sutherland purchased the Tacoma Tent and Awning Company, building it from four to thirty-four employees over the next two decades. Having seen the impact government can have on small businesses and families, Sutherland became involved in local politics. From 1980 to 1981, Sutherland served...
The Monitor House is a historic house in St. Paris, Ohio, United States. Located along West Main Street, it is a square brick structure resting on a foundation of stone and covered with an asphalt roof. Although the house is primarily one story tall, it is built around a 112-story square clerestory. The house was constructed circa 1860, although its precise date of erection - as well as the names of its first owner and its designer - is unknown. Its five-bay, 30-foot -long exterior is decorated with cornices around the window lintels. Inside, the rooms open onto a central hallway that concludes with a stairway to the second floor of the central part of the house. In 1974, the Monitor House was listed on the National Register of Historic Places because of its unusual architecture. Only two or three monitor houses, featuring an elevated center, are known to exist in Ohio, and the one in St. Paris is architecturally the most well-preserved consequently, it is considered historically significant statewide. In contrast, a similar monitor house in Chillicothe, known as Tanglewood, is only considered locally significant. The house in St. Paris was the first of over thirty...
Ben Rhys Thompson is an English professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for EFL League One club Bromley.  Early life  Thompson was born in Sidcup, south-east London.  Career   Millwall  He made his senior debut for Millwall on 26 August 2014, as a 76th-minute substitute for Jimmy Abdou in a 0-2 home defeat to Southampton in the second round of the League Cup. He was also an unused substitute for the final two games of the 2014-15 Championship season, which ended in relegation to League One. Thompson scored his first Millwall goal against League Two side Wycombe Wanderers, scoring from an excellent effort 25 yards outside the box in a 1-2 FA Cup loss. On 17 August 2018, Thompson joined EFL League One club Portsmouth on a season-long loan. Ben Thompson was recalled on 6 January 2019 back to his parent club Millwall. With his playing time limited to just 5 appearances in the 2021-22 season on 31 January 2022 it was announced by Millwall that Thompson had cancelled his contract by mutual consent.  Gillingham  He immediately joined up with his former Millwall manager, Neil Harris, at EFL League One club Gillingham, signing a short-term contract...
Caines is a Danish brand of cigarettes, currently owned and manufactured by House of Prince, a subsidiary of British American Tobacco. When the factory closed its doors in 2011, British American Tobacco Polska S.A. took over the manufacturing duty and began production of the brand in Latvia., however, the brand is currently produced in Poland.  History  Caines was founded in 1990 during the reconstruction of the Scandinavian Tobacco Group, and are still sold today. The brand is sold in Denmark, Latvia and Lithuania, but was also sold in Norway, Sweden, Estonia, Czech Republic and Greece.  See also  Tobacco smoking  References 
Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology may refer to a number of museums, including: Museo Nacional de Antropologa, Mexico City, Mexico Museo Nacional de Arqueologa, Antropologa e Historia del Per, Lima, Peru Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, University of Cambridge, England University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, Philadelphia, United States  See also  National Museum of Anthropology
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to archaeology: Archaeology - study of cultures through the recovery, documentation, and analysis of material remains and environmental data, including architecture, artifacts, biofacts, human remains, and landscapes.  What type of thing is archaeology?  Archaeology can be described as all of the following: Academic discipline Science Social science  Essence of archaeology  Archaeological ethics Archaeological excavation Archaeological record Archaeological science Archaeological site Archaeological theory Artifacts Biofacts Excavation  Branches of archaeology   Archaeological practice  Cultural Resources Management Archaeological ethics Urban archaeology  Archaeological science  Archaeological science Archaeometry Dendrochronology Isotope analysis Palynology Radiocarbon dating Zooarchaeology Geoarchaeology Bioarchaeology Archaeogenetics Computational archaeology  Archaeological subdisciplines  Subfields of archaeology Ethnoarchaeology Taphonomy  By location  List of archaeological sites by country African archaeology Australian archaeology European archaeology Russian archaeology Archaeology...
Monrepos is an archaeological research centre and a museum of human behavioural evolution located in Germany, at Schloss Monrepos in the city of Neuwied. The development of modern human behaviour in the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic is studied at the research centre and the findings of these studies are conveyed to the public in the museum. Monrepos is one of the leading institutions for the research of early human history.  Structure  Monrepos is part of the Rmisch-Germanisches Zentralmuseum Romano-Germanic Central Museum, known as RGZM, which is a member of the Leibniz Association. Another provider for Monrepos is Prinz Maximilian zu Wied-Stiftung, supported by the Frderkreis Altsteinzeit e.V., which assists with research, teaching and the publication of research. Monrepos collaborates closely with the Institute for Prehistoric Archaeology of the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz.  Location  Monrepos is a historical recreation area located on the hills above the town of Neuwied in a transition zone between the Middle Rhine valley and the Westerwald. In the extensive forests of Monrepos several long-distance hiking trails cross such as the Rheinsteig...
The decade of the 1620s in archaeology involved some significant events.  Explorations   Excavations   Finds  1621: Ludovisi Battle sarcophagus in Rome. 1627: Parian Chronicle in Paros.  Events  1625: Last cannon salvaged from English ship Revenge   Births  1620: 15 February - Franois Charpentier, French archaeologist 1626: 12 March - John Aubrey, English antiquary  Deaths  1629: Antonio Bosio, Italian scholar  References 
In prehistoric archaeology, scrapers are unifacial tools thought to have been used for hideworking and woodworking. Many lithic analysts maintain that the only true scrapers are defined on the base of use-wear, and usually are those that were worked on the distal ends of blades-i.e., end scrapers . Other scrapers include the so-called side scrapers or racloirs, which are made on the longest side of a flake, and notched scrapers, which have a cleft on either side that may have been used to attach them to something else. Scrapers are typically formed by chipping the end of a flake of stone in order to create one sharp side and to keep the rest of the sides dull to facilitate grasping it. Most scrapers are either circle or blade-like in shape. The working edges of scrapers tend to be convex, and many have trimmed and dulled lateral edges to facilitate hafting. One important variety of scraper is the thumbnail scraper, a scraper shaped much like its namesake. This scraper type is common at Paleo-Indian sites in North America. Scrapers are one of the most varied lithic tools found at archaeological sites. Due to the vast array of scrapers there are many typologies...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 435 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Empirical software engineering also known as Evidence-based software engineering is a subfield of software engineering research that uses empirical research methods to study and evaluate SE techniques. These techniques include: software development toolstechnology, practices, processes, policies, or other human and organizational aspects. ESE has roots in experimental software engineering, but as the field has matured, the need and acceptance for both quantitative and qualitative research have grown. Today, common research methods used in ESE for primary and secondary research include the following: Primary research experimentation, case study research, survey research, simulations in particular software Process simulation Secondary research methods Systematic reviews, Systematic mapping studies, rapid reviews, tertiary review  Teaching empirical software engineering  Handbook on Teaching Empirical Software Engineering is targeted at educators who are teaching empirical methods to software engineering students. It has 21 chapters written by a total of 53 authors from 39 institutions across 16 countries. The book offers comprehensive guidelines...
A software development process prescribes a process for developing software. It typically divides an overall effort into smaller steps or sub-processes that are intended to ensure high-quality results. The process may describe specific deliverables - artifacts to be created and completed. Although not strictly limited to it, software development process often refers to the high-level process that governs the development of a software system from its beginning to its end of life - known as a methodology, model or framework. The system development life cycle describes the typical phases that a development effort goes through from the beginning to the end of life for a system - including a software system. A methodology prescribes how engineers go about their work in order to move the system through its life cycle. A methodology is a classification of processes or a blueprint for a process that is devised for the SDLC. For example, many processes can be classified as a spiral model. Software process and software quality are closely interrelated some unexpected facets and effects have been observed in practice.  Methodology  The SDLC drives the definition of a methodology in...
Software architecture is the set of structures needed to reason about a software system and the discipline of creating such structures and systems. Each structure comprises software elements, relations among them, and properties of both elements and relations. The architecture of a software system is a metaphor, analogous to the architecture of a building. It functions as the blueprints for the system and the development project, which project management can later use to extrapolate the tasks necessary to be executed by the teams and people involved. Software architecture is about making fundamental structural choices that are costly to change once implemented. Software architecture choices include specific structural options from possibilities in the design of the software. There are two fundamental laws in software architecture: Everything is a trade-off Why is more important than how Architectural Kata is a teamwork which can be used to produce an architectural solution that fits the needs. Each team extracts and prioritizes architectural characteristics then models the components accordingly. The team can use C4 Model which is a flexible method...
Software Engineering Institute is a federally funded research and development center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. Founded in 1984, the institute is sponsored by the United States Department of Defense and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and administrated by Carnegie Mellon University. The activities of the institute cover cybersecurity, software assurance, software engineering and acquisition, and component capabilities critical to the United States Department of Defense.  Authority  The Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute is a federally funded research and development center headquartered on the campus of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The SEI also has offices in Washington, DC Arlington County, Virginia and Los Angeles, California. The SEI operates with major funding from the U.S. Department of Defense. The SEI also works with industry and academia through research collaborations. On November 14, 1984, the U.S. Department of Defense elected Carnegie Mellon University as the host site of the Software Engineering Institute. The institute was founded with an initial...
The history of software engineering begins around the 1960s. Writing software has evolved into a profession concerned with how best to maximize the quality of software and of how to create it. Quality can refer to how maintainable software is, to its stability, speed, usability, testability, readability, size, cost, security, and number of flaws or bugs, as well as to less measurable qualities like elegance, conciseness, and customer satisfaction, among many other attributes. How best to create high quality software is a separate and controversial problem covering software design principles, so-called best practices for writing code, as well as broader management issues such as optimal team size, process, how best to deliver software on time and as quickly as possible, work-place culture, hiring practices, and so forth. All this falls under the broad rubric of software engineering.  Overview  The evolution of software engineering is notable in a number of areas: Emergence as a profession: By the early 1980s software engineering had already emerged as a bona fide profession, to stand beside computer science and traditional engineering. Role of women: Before 1970 men filling...
Social software engineering is a branch of software engineering that is concerned with the social aspects of software development and the developed software. SSE focuses on the socialness of both software engineering and developed software. On the one hand, the consideration of social factors in software engineering activities, processes and CASE tools is deemed to be useful to improve the quality of both development process and produced software. Examples include the role of situational awareness and multi-cultural factors in collaborative software development. On the other hand, the dynamicity of the social contexts in which software could operate calls for engineering social adaptability as a runtime iterative activity. Examples include approaches which enable software to gather users' quality feedback and use it to adapt autonomously or semi-autonomously. SSE studies and builds socially-oriented tools to support collaboration and knowledge sharing in software engineering. SSE also investigates the adaptability of software to the dynamic social contexts in which it could operate and the involvement of clients and end-users in shaping software...
Reverse engineering also known as backwards engineering or back engineering is a process or method through which one attempts to understand through deductive reasoning how a previously made device, process, system, or piece of software accomplishes a task with very little insight into exactly how it does so. Depending on the system under consideration and the technologies employed, the knowledge gained during reverse engineering can help with repurposing obsolete objects, doing security analysis, or learning how something works. Although the process is specific to the object on which it is being performed, all reverse engineering processes consist of three basic steps: information extraction, modeling, and review. Information extraction is the practice of gathering all relevant information for performing the operation. Modeling is the practice of combining the gathered information into an abstract model, which can be used as a guide for designing the new object or system. Review is the testing of the model to ensure the validity of the chosen abstract. Reverse engineering is applicable in the fields of computer engineering, mechanical engineering, design, electrical and electronic...
These are lists of engineering software tools used for design, analysis, simulation, and management across different engineering disciplines.  Lists of engineering software  Accelerator physics codes Comparison of EDA software and list of electrical engineering software Comparison of electromagnetic simulation software Comparison of nucleic acid simulation software Comparison of optimization software Comparison of software for molecular mechanics modeling Comparison of system dynamics software List of aerospace engineering software List of automotive engineering software List of bioinformatics software and structural alignment software List of building information modeling software List of chemical engineering software List of chemical process simulators List of civil engineering software List of computational chemistry software and list of quantum chemistry and solid-state physics software List of computational fluid dynamics software List of computational materials science software List of computational physics software List of computer-aided engineering software List of computer-aided manufacturing software and list of 3D printing software List of construction software List of...
Software testing is the act of checking whether software meets its intended objectives and satisfies expectations. Software testing can provide objective, independent information about the quality of software and the risk of its failure to a user or sponsor or any other stakeholder. Software testing can determine the correctness of software for specific scenarios but cannot determine correctness for all scenarios. It cannot find all bugs. Based on the criteria for measuring correctness from an oracle, software testing employs principles and mechanisms that might recognize a problem. Examples of oracles include specifications, contracts, comparable products, past versions of the same product, inferences about intended or expected purpose, user or customer expectations, relevant standards, and applicable laws. Software testing can be functional or non-functional in nature. Software testing is often dynamic in nature: running the software to verify actual output matches expected. It can also be static in nature: reviewing code and its associated documentation. Software testing is often used to answer the question: Does the software do what it is supposed to do and what it needs to do?...
Computer science is the study of computation, information, and automation. Included broadly in the sciences, computer science spans theoretical disciplines such as algorithms, theory of computation, and information theory to applied disciplines including the design and implementation of hardware and software. An expert in the field is known as a computer scientist. Algorithms and data structures are central to computer science. The theory of computation concerns abstract models of computation and general classes of problems that can be solved using them. The fields of cryptography and computer security involve studying the means for secure communication and preventing security vulnerabilities. Computer graphics and computational geometry address the generation of images. Programming language theory considers different ways to describe computational processes, and database theory concerns the management of repositories of data. Human-computer interaction investigates the interfaces through which humans and computers interact, and software engineering focuses on the design and principles behind developing software. Areas such as operating systems, networks and embedded systems investigate...
Elpida Karamandi Aromanian: Elpida Caramandi, Macedonian:   was an Aromanian Yugoslav partisan and resistance fighter. She was born on 1 January 1920, in Florina, Greece, in an Aromanian family. Her mother was divorced from her husband and moved to her relatives in Bitola, then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, where she remarried. Karamandi grew up and was educated in Bitola and later continued her studies in Belgrade, where she became a member of SKOJ in 1939. When the Second World War began, Karamandi came back to Bitola. In June 1941, she joined the Yugoslav Communist Party, but her activities were detected by the Bulgarian police and she was arrested. On her release she resumed her resistance work against the occupiers. In April 1942, she left Bitola and joined the First Bitola Partisan detachment. On 3 May 1942, the detachment was surrounded by the Bulgarian police. Heavily wounded, Elpida Karamandi was captured, and later died in Bulgarian captivity after being tortured. She was declared a Yugoslav national hero on 11 October 1951.  Legacy  In 1984, Yugoslavia honoured Karamandi with a stamp as part of a series of national heroes of Yugoslavia. A bust of her...
The 2011 Skycity Triple Crown was a motor race for the Australian sedan-based V8 Supercars racing cars. It was the sixth event of the 2011 International V8 Supercars Championship. It was held on the weekend of June 17 to 19 at Hidden Valley Raceway in Darwin, Northern Territory. It was the fourteenth V8 Supercar event held at the circuit. The event hosted races 12 and 13 of the 2011 season. A 42 lap, 120-kilometre race was held on Saturday while Sunday saw a 69 lap, 200-kilometre race. Qualifying for Race 12 consisted of a 20-minute, all-in session with the fastest ten progressing to the top ten shootout. Qualifying for Race 13 was a single 20 minute, all-in session. Ford Performance Racing's Mark Winterbottom took his second consecutive pole position in qualifying for Race 12 after taking pole for the Sunday race at Winton. He was followed by the Triple Eight Race Engineering Holden of championship leader Jamie Whincup and Shane van Gisbergen of Stone Brothers Racing. These three drivers remained untroubled at the front for the majority of the race until the final safety car restart. Whincup tapped the back of Winterbottom and in response, Winterbottom slowed. This backed the field...
Stag PD, or simply Stag, is a gay-owned nightclub and strip club in Portland, Oregon's Pearl District, in the United States. The club opened in May 2015 as the second all-nude gay strip club on the West Coast.  Description  The gay-owned bar at 317 Broadway in northwest Portland's Pearl District has been described as more gentlemen's club than night club and Northwest lounge-meets-library-meets-executive locker room. Willamette Week said the original Christopher David-designed club looked like the private rooms where today's grandpas once held stag parties, with brown leather couches, Victorian wallpapered sitting rooms, Edison bulbs hanging from nautical rope, and dark, aqua walls covered in snowshoes and ancient oars and framed kitsch-plus a taxidermal white buck behind the bar. Vendors used to design the interior were part of the community, according to the original owner Jerrick Hope-Lang, who said, They wanted to have a very masculine, Pacific Northwest feel - a gentleman's club-meets-hunting lodge-meets-hot boys dancing in thongs. Stag is the second all-nude gay strip club on the West Coast, after Silverado, which is located in downtown Portland. Unlike Silverado...
The Last Spike is a 1971 Canadian non-fiction book by Pierre Berton describing the construction and completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway between 1881 and 1885. It is a sequel to Berton's 1970 book The National Dream. Both books formed the basis for the TV miniseries The National Dream. The book won the 1971 Governor General's Award for English-language non-fiction.  Editions  1971 : ISBN 0-7710-1327-2 1974, combined with The National Dream : ISBN 0-7710-1332-9 2001 : ISBN 0-385-65841-9  Further reading  The Last Spike. . Maclean's, Jan 1, 2000, Vol.112, p. 242.  References 
V-Ray is a biased computer-generated imagery rendering software application developed by Bulgarian software company Chaos. V-Ray is a commercial plug-in for third-party 3D computer graphics software applications and is used for visualizations and computer graphics in industries such as media, entertainment, film and video game production, industrial design, product design and architecture.  Overview  V-Ray is a rendering engine that uses global illumination algorithms, including path tracing, photon mapping, irradiance maps and directly computed global illumination. The desktop 3D applications that are supported by V-Ray are: Autodesk 3ds Max Autodesk Revit Cinema 4D Autodesk Maya Nuke Rhinoceros SketchUp Katana Unreal Engine Houdini Blender Academic and stand-alone versions of V-Ray are also available. Modo support was discontinued at the end of 2021. In 2021, V-Ray received an Engineering Emmy Award from the Television Academy.  Notable studios using V-Ray   North America   United States  Method Studios Digital Domain Blur Studio Zoic Studios Apple Inc. Hogarth Worldwide  Canada  Bardel Entertainment  Europe   France  ZAG Entertainment  Netherlands... 
Orazio Maurice Fantasia  -RAH-zee-oh fan-t-SEE- or fan-TAY-zh born 14 September 1995 is a former professional Australian rules footballer who played for Essendon, Port Adelaide and Carlton in the Australian Football League .  AFL career  Fantasia graduated from Norwood Morialta High School in 2013. Fantasia played his junior football for the Payneham Norwood Union Football Club where his talent was identified by South Australian Hall of Famer Garry McIntosh who selected him in the club's senior side as a 15 year old. He made his senior debut for Norwood in the South Australian National Football League in 2013. In only his fourth game he was a member of their 2013 SANFL premiership side.  Essendon  Fantasia was drafted into the AFL by the Essendon Football Club with the 55th overall selection in the 2013 national draft. He made his debut against Richmond in round 20, 2014 and was dropped for the following round but regained his spot in round 22 against the Gold Coast, replacing Dyson Heppell who missed the game due to a broken hand. In the final round of the 2015 season, he was rewarded with a nomination for the AFL Rising Star where he recorded 27 disposals...
Neighbours is a song recorded by the English rock band the Rolling Stones. Written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards, it is an uptempo song featuring a saxophone part played by Sonny Rollins. The song was released 24 August 1981 by Rolling Stones Records and included as the sixth track on the band's 1981 studio album Tattoo You.  Writing and recording  Jagger and Richards initially wrote Neighbours during the Emotional Rescue sessions in June-July 1979. It was further worked on by Jagger and Richards for Tattoo You in October 1979 and April-June 1981. Jagger was inspired by Richards' own run-ins with his neighbours after the guitarist was evicted from his New York City apartment after complaints that he was playing music too loudly. On the story, Richards said at the time of release, ...Patti and I have been evicted from apartments in New York. Mick wrote the lyrics to that - and he never has trouble with neighbours... I have a knack of finding a whole building of very cool people, you know, but there'll be one uncool couple... 'Neighbours' is the first song I think Mick's ever really written for me. It's one I wish I'd written, that. Neighbours...
Leonardo Leo Andrs Mainoldi , is an Argentine professional basketball player. He is 6 ft 812 in tall. He plays at the power forward position.  Professional career  On September 1, 2013, Mainoldi signed a one-year deal with the Spanish EuroLeague club Laboral Kutxa.  National team career  Mainoldi has been a member of the senior men's Argentina national basketball team. He won the bronze medal at the 2009 FIBA Americas Championship, the bronze medal at the 2013 FIBA Americas Championship, and the silver medal at the 2015 FIBA Americas Championship. He also played at the 2016 Summer Olympics.  Honors and awards  Ford Burgos Spanish 3rd Division Champion 2006 Spanish 3rd Cup Winner 2006 Plus Pujol Lleida Catalan 2nd Division Champion 2007 Argentine national team South American Under-21 Championship: Gold 2004 South American Championship: Bronze 2006 South American Championship: Gold 2008 FIBA Americas Championship: Bronze 2009 South American Championship: Silver 2010 FIBA Americas Championship: Bronze 2013 FIBA Americas Championship: Silver 2015  Personal life  Leonardo has an older brother, Carlos, who is also a professional basketball...
Puppis is a constellation in the southern sky. It was originally part of the traditional constellation of Argo Navis Argo is the ship of Jason and the Argonauts, which was divided into three parts, the other two being Carina , and Vela . Puppis is the largest of the three constellations in square degrees. It is one of the 88 modern constellations recognized by the International Astronomical Union.  History  The constellation of Argo Navis is recorded in Greek texts, derived from ancient Egypt around 1000 BC. According to Plutarch, its equivalent in Egyptian astronomy was the Boat of Osiris. As Argo Navis was roughly 28 larger than the next largest constellation, Hydra, it was sub-divided into three sections in 1752 by the French astronomer Nicolas Louis de Lacaille, including Puppis, which he referred to as Args in puppi. Despite the division, Lacaille kept a single set of Bayer designations for the whole constellation, Argo. Therefore, Carina has the , , and , Vela has  and , Puppis has , and so on. In 1844, John Herschel proposed complete dividing Argo Navis in accordance with Lacaille's divisions. However, the constellation...
Gary Twigg is a Scottish former association footballer who played as a forward.  Career   Derby County  Twigg began his career in 2000 with English club Derby County, having graduated through the youth system. He made his debut for Derby at the age of 17 as a striker in a Premier League match against Sunderland in May 2002, his only appearance that season. In the 2002-03 season, he made eight first-team appearances, seven as a substitute, branching out into the position of left wing when needed.  Loan to Burton Albion  In September 2003 he joined Burton Albion on loan, for whom he made four appearances.  Airdrie United  Having been released by Derby, and following an unsuccessful trial period at League of Ireland club Derry City, he placed roots at Airdrie United in August 2005, where he went on to make 65 league and cup appearances in two years, scoring 18 goals. He won the SFL Player of the Month award for December 2006 after scoring six goals in six games, helping Airdrie to only one defeat out of six league games.  Oxford United  Twigg signed a two-year contract with Conference National side Oxford United on 5 July 2007. Nick Merry, Oxford...
WJAL is a television station licensed to Silver Spring, Maryland, United States, serving the Washington, D.C., area as an affiliate of the Spanish-language network AltaVision. Owned by Entravision Communications, it is sister to Washington-licensed WMDO-CD . WJAL shares transmitter facilities with CBS affiliate WUSA on Wisconsin Avenue in the Tenleytown section of northwest Washington.  History   As a Hagerstown station  Owned by Good Companion Broadcasting, a Christian non-profit organization, WJAL first broadcast on May 6, 1987, originally licensed to Hagerstown, Maryland, as that city's third television station . WJAL's offices were located in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania , and its original transmitter was located 15 miles west of Chambersburg and 85 miles northwest of Washington, atop Tuscarora Mountain near the town of McConnellsburg. WJAL was the Washington market's charter WB affiliate when the network launched on January 11, 1995. Six weeks later, The WB added WFTY , based in Washington proper. As WJAL was not seen in Washington either...
On the Fly is the ninth album by the Irish folk band Patrick Street, released in 2007 on Loftus Music. The regular band members Andy Irvine, Kevin Burke, Jackie Daly, Ged Foley were joined by new member John Carty , and by guest musician Brendan Hearty . Daly left the band after this recording.  Recording and production  The album was arranged by Patrick Street, produced by Ged Foley and Patrick Street, engineered by Brendan Hearty and Ged Foley, and recorded at the following studios: Scalp, County Clare, Ireland Weir Hall, Larkin Abbot Surrey, England Mixed by Paul Gurney at Real World Studios, Clonrollagh, Longford, Ireland.  Critical reception  On the Fly received positive reviews from folk music critics. In his review for fRoots , Colin Irwin stated: It's over two decades since Patrick Street first sauntered among us, liberally dispensing virtuosity, taste and exquisite tunes and it's gratifying to report that they're still at it - and this latest foray into the sunlight finds them as immaculate as ever. All the vocal tracks slot in neatly around jigs, reels, polkas and hornpipes that blend immaculately...
The Gladstone-MacDonald pact of 1903 was a secret informal electoral agreement negotiated by Herbert Gladstone, Liberal Party Chief Whip, and Ramsay MacDonald, Secretary of the Labour Representation Committee . The Liberal Party agreed to withdraw parliamentary candidates in some constituencies where the LRC was also standing in order to make sure the anti-Conservative vote was not split. There was increasing tension between the Liberal Party and the LRC since the latter's formation in 1900. For example, in the by-election for Clitheroe in 1902, local cotton weavers refused to withdraw their candidate, David Shackleton, who was not an approved Lib-Lab candidate. Gladstone therefore withdrew the Liberal candidate and Shackleton was elected unopposed. This was one of the main reasons behind the formation of the pact. In the general election of 1906, 31 of the 50 LRC candidates contested seats where the Liberals agreed not to put up a candidate. 24 of the 29 LRC MPs elected in that election were in seats where the Liberals did not stand. Eric J. Evans argues: The MacDonald-Gladstone pact proved to be a turning point. It gave the LRC a bridgehead in parliament, with twenty-nine of...
Mehmet Demir is a Kurdish politician with the People's Democratic Party in Turkey, and served as co-mayor of Batman until his removal by the Turkish state in March 2020. Demir was dismissed from his post on Monday, 23 March 2020 and subsequently arrested along with Diyarbakr's Silvan District Mayor Naide Toprak, Ergani District Mayor Ahmet Kaya, Lice Mayor Tark Mercan and Eil District Mayor Mustafa Akkul. The HDP also stated that Yeniehir Co-Mayor Belgin Diken, Batman Vice Co-Mayors ehriban Aydn and Salih etinkaya, Batman Municipal Assembly Co-Spokespersons kran elebi and Recep Yarg had also been detained. According to pro-government Turkish newspaper Daily Sabah, Turkey has now removed the elected administrations of 93 municipalities in the region for their links to the PKK terrorist group. The HDP denies links to the PKK, and HDP co-leader Mithat Sancar told Reuters that We reject with hatred this vile attempt that does not shy away from showing enmity against Kurds even in these difficult days when the whole world is battling an epidemic. Cumhuriyet newspaper reported that police detained 16 people for protesting the decision to remove the mayor in front of...
Sotalol, sold under the brand name Betapace among others, is a medication used to treat and prevent abnormal heart rhythms. Evidence does not support a decreased risk of death with long term use. It is taken by mouth or given by injection into a vein. Common side effects include a slow heart rate, chest pain, low blood pressure, feeling tired, dizziness, shortness of breath, problems seeing, vomiting, and swelling. Other serious side effects may include QT prolongation, heart failure, or bronchospasm. Sotalol is a non-selective -adrenergic receptor blocker which has both class II and class III antiarrhythmic properties. Sotalol was first described in 1964 and came into medical use in 1974. It is available as a generic medication. In 2020, it was the 296th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 1 million prescriptions.  Medical uses  According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration , sotalol can be validly used to maintain a normal heart rhythm in people with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias , or very symptomatic atrial fibrillation or flutter. Due to the risk of serious side effects, the FDA states...
Setteri is a village situated in the Bangarupalyam mandal of the Chittoor District in Andhra Pradesh. It is about fifteen km from Kanipakam. It enjoys a cool climate all over the calendar year with abundant water and natural resources.  Geography  Setteri is located near to the main highway NH4 between Chennai and Bangalore, and almost exactly midway between the two cities. It is approximately 33 km from Chittoor and close to Tirupati, Tiruttani, Mogili, Kanipakam and Ardhagiri temples. Setteri is well known for green mango orchards, jaggery production, groundnuts and has several freshwater springs.  Demographics  In the 2011 census, the population of Setteri was 1,275 people.  References 
Denise Pacheco Gomes is a Brazilian mixed martial artist currently fighting in the women's Strawweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship . As of August 29, 2026, she is 4 in the Meta UFC women's strawweight rankings.  Mixed martial arts career   Early career  Gomes started her professional MMA career in 2017 and mainly fought in Brazil. She amassed a record of 4-1 prior to being signed by Invicta. Gomes faced Milana Dudieva at Invicta FC 46 on March 9, 2022. She won the bout in the third round by way of technical knockout by knees and punches. Gomes faced Rayanne Amanda at Dana White's Contender Series 51 on August 23, 2022. She won the fight via unanimous decision, earning her a UFC contract in the process.  Ultimate Fighting Championship  Gomes faced Loma Lookboonmee on September 17, 2022, at UFC Fight Night 210. She replaced Diana Belbi who was originally scheduled to face Lookboonmee. Gomes lost the fight via unanimous decision. Gomes was scheduled to face Bruna Brasil on April 15, 2023, at UFC on ESPN 44. Gomes won the bout by technical knockout. Gomes faced Yazmin Jauregui at UFC 290 on July 8, 2023. She won the fight by...
The automotive industry comprises a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing, selling, repairing, and modification of motor vehicles. It is one of the world's largest industries by revenue with global automotive market at 2.75 trillion in 2025. Companies involved in the assembly and marketing of automotive vehicles are heavily dependent on other firms in their supply chain.  History  The word automotive comes from the Greek autos , and Latin motivus , referring to any form of self-powered vehicle. This term, as proposed by Elmer Sperry , first came into use to describe automobiles in 1898. The automotive industry began in the 1860s, with hundreds of manufacturers pioneering the horseless carriage. Early car manufacturing involved manual assembly by a human worker. The process evolved from engineers working on a stationary car to a conveyor belt system where the car passed through multiple stations of more specialised engineers. In the 1960s, robotic equipment was introduced, and most cars are now mainly assembled by automated machinery. For many decades, the United States led the world...
The banana industry is a significant sector of global agroindustry. About 15 of the global banana production enters international trade largely supplying markets in Western countries. Production is concentrated in tropical regions and is often organized around large-scale banana plantations, primarily in the Americas.  Ecological impact  Intensive monoculture methods, such as in banana production, are associated with significant environmental impacts. Banana cultivation relies heavily on pesticide use and has been linked to ecosystem destruction through deforestation. Moreover, food miles and plastic packaging contribute to the industry's overall carbon footprint.  Cash crop  In 2012 the volume of global gross banana exports reached a record high of 16.5 million metric tons , 1.1 million tonnes above 2011 level. Bananas are the most popular fruit in the United States, with more consumed annually than apples and oranges combined. In spite of the multitude of banana species across the world, even only taking into account the cultivated ones, industrial production is dominated by the Cavendish banana, which accounts...
The horse industry, or equine industry, is the economic activity associated with horses. This includes core agribusiness activities related to the use, possession or ownership of horses, as well as leisure activities and related economic activity that provides associated goods and services. Businesses directly or indirectly related to horses include equine nutrition, equipment, publications, veterinary care, education, and sports clothing. In the U.S., about 6 percent of veterinarians specialize in horse care, within the larger field of large animal veterinary care.  Economic impact  A 2009 survey conducted by American Horse Publications found that the horse industry had an economic impact of about 300 billion dollars, based upon a US horse population of four million animals, and it generated 1.6 million full-time jobs. Two previous studies were completed in 1996 and 2005. The 2005 study determined there were 9.2 million horses in the United States, a plurality of which were used for recreational purposes. That study identified a direct economic impact of 39 billion and combined direct and indirect spending having an economic impact of 102 billion, supporting 1.4 million...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 446 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A kernel is a computer program at the core of a computer's operating system that always has complete control over everything in the system. The kernel is also responsible for preventing and mitigating conflicts between different processes. It is the portion of the operating system that is always resident in memory and facilitates interactions between hardware and software components. A full kernel controls all hardware resources via device drivers, arbitrates conflicts between processes concerning such resources, and optimizes the use of common resources, such as CPU, cache, file systems, and network sockets. On most systems, the kernel is one of the first programs loaded on startup . It handles the rest of startup as well as memory, peripherals, and inputoutput requests from software, translating them into data-processing instructions for the central processing unit. The critical code of the kernel is usually loaded into a separate area of memory, which is protected from access by application software or other less critical parts of the operating system. The kernel performs its tasks, such as scheduling processes, managing...
In computer science, recursion is a method of solving a computational problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem. Recursion solves such recursive problems by using functions that call themselves from within their own code. The approach can be applied to many types of problems, and recursion is one of the central ideas of computer science. The power of recursion evidently lies in the possibility of defining an infinite set of objects by a finite statement. In the same manner, an infinite number of computations can be described by a finite recursive program, even if this program contains no explicit repetitions. Most computer programming languages support recursion by allowing a function to call itself from within its own code. Some functional programming languages do not define any built-in looping constructs, and instead rely solely on recursion. It is proved in computability theory that these recursion-only languages are Turing complete this means that they are as powerful they can be used to solve the same problems as imperative languages based on control structures such as while and for. Repeatedly calling...
The Bachelor of Computer Science is a bachelor's degree for completion of an undergraduate program in computer science. In general, computer science degree programs emphasize the mathematical and theoretical foundations of computing.  Typical requirements  Because computer science is a wide field, courses required to earn a bachelor of computer science degree vary. A typical list of course requirements includes topics such as: Computer programming Programming paradigms Algorithms Data structures Logic  Computation Computer architecture Some schools may place more emphasis on mathematics and require additional courses such as: Linear algebra Calculus Probability theory and statistics Combinatorics and discrete mathematics Differential calculus and mathematics Beyond the basic set of computer science courses, students can typically choose additional courses from a variety of different fields, such as: Theory of computation Operating systems Numerical computation Compilers, compiler design Real-time computing Distributed systems Computer networking Data communication Computer graphics Artificial intelligence Human-computer interaction Information theory...
The branches of science, also referred to as sciences, scientific fields or scientific disciplines, are commonly divided into three major groups: Formal sciences: the study of formal systems, such as those under the branches of logic and mathematics, which use an a priori, as opposed to empirical, methodology. They study abstract structures described by formal systems. Natural sciences: the study of natural phenomena including cosmological, geological, physical, chemical, and biological factors of the universe. Natural science can be divided into two main branches: physical science and life science. Social sciences: the study of human behavior in its social and cultural aspects. Scientific knowledge must be grounded in observable phenomena and must be capable of being verified by other researchers working under the same conditions. Natural, social, and formal science make up the basic sciences, which form the basis of interdisciplinarity - and applied sciences such as engineering and medicine. Specialized scientific disciplines that exist in multiple categories may include parts of other scientific disciplines but often possess their own terminologies and expertises.  Formal... 
Below is a list of computer science journals.  Alphabetic list of titles   A  ACM Computing Reviews ACM Computing Surveys ACM Transactions on Algorithms ACM Transactions on Computational Logic ACM Transactions on Database Systems ACM Transactions on Graphics ACM Transactions on Information Systems ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology Acta Informatica Adaptive Behavior ALGOL Bulletin Algorithmica Algorithms Applied Artificial Intelligence Archives of Computational Methods in Engineering Artificial Intelligence Astronomy and Computing Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems  B  Journal of the Brazilian Computer Society  C  Cluster Computing Code Words Cognitive Systems Research Combinatorica Combinatorics, Probability and Computing Communications of the ACM Computacin y Sistemas Computational and Mathematical Organization Theory Computational Intelligence Computational Mechanics Computer Aided Surgery The Computer Journal Computer Law  Security Review Computer Networks Computational Optimization and Applications Computer...
The degree of Doctor of Computer Science is an applied research doctorate in computer science awarded on the basis of advanced study and research in the field of computer science. While it is considered a terminal degree and requires coursework and research beyond the masters' level, the DCS is not considered equivalent to a Ph.D. or a Doctor of Science in computer science.  Structure  Typical entry requirements include master's degrees in computer science or a related field. The degree is intended for those who will make meaningful contributions to either the theory or practice of computing and as such involves both research and taught courses beyond master's degree level. Applied doctorates such as the DCS are aimed at practitioners with professional careers in the field rather than at those aiming for research careers in academia. The DCS is normally completed in three years, with a split of approximately two years of coursework and one year equivalent spent on the dissertation.  Relationship to the Ph.D.  Structurally, the Doctor of Computer Science differs from the PhD in that the DCS has...
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory is a research institute at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology formed by the 2003 merger of the Laboratory for Computer Science and the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory . Housed within the Ray and Maria Stata Center, CSAIL is the largest on-campus laboratory as measured by research scope and membership. It is part of the Schwarzman College of Computing but is also overseen by the MIT Vice President of Research.  Research activities  CSAIL's research activities are organized around a number of semi-autonomous research groups, each of which is headed by one or more professors or research scientists. These groups are divided up into seven general areas of research: Artificial intelligence Computational biology Graphics and vision Language and learning Theory of computation Robotics Systems includes computer architecture, databases, distributed systems, networks and networked systems, operating systems, programming methodology, and software engineering, among others  History  Computing Research at MIT began with Vannevar Bush's research into a differential analyzer and Claude Shannon's...
Lil' G.L. Presents: Jukebox Charley is the tenth studio album by American singer Charley Crockett, released on April 22, 2022, through Son of Davy and distributed by Thirty Tigers. The album is the final installment so far in Crockett's Lil. G.L. series of albums.  Background  Produced alongside longtime producer, Billy Horton, at his Fort Horton Studios, Crockett once again tackled various obscure songs by many giants in the country music world, learned in his time on street corners across the globe. The album would feature a whole host of covers ranging from Jerry Reed, Tom T. Hall, Roger Miller, Willie Nelson, Johnny Paycheck, Porter Wagoner, George Jones, and many others.  Track listing   Personnel  Musicians Charley Crockett - lead vocals, acoustic guitar Nathan Fleming - pedal steel Mario Valdez - drums Billy Horton - electric bass, upright bass, acoustic guitar, backing vocals Bobby Horton - acoustic guitar, harpsichord, organ, xylophone Jason Moeller - drums Colin Colby - acoustic guitar Mike Molnar - acoustic guitar Tjarko Jeen - electric guitar Dave Biller - electric guitar Ted Roddy - harmonica T Jarrod Bonta - piano Doug Strahan - resonator Doug James - saxophone...
Cuno Hugo Rudolph was an American politician who served as the 10th and 14th president of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia from 1910 to 1913 and again from 1921 to 1926. He was the only person to hold this office for two non-consecutive periods.  Early life  Rudolph, the son of Jacob and Elizabeth Yerger Rudolph, was born in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1860 where he attended private schools and business colleges. He moved to Washington, D.C. in 1899 and become engaged in the hardware business, and served as the president of the hardware firm Rudolph and West until 1906. Rudolph married Amy Edna Merz on June 8, 1901, and the couple had no children. Rudolph expanded his business into bricks and banking and became active in politics as a Republican.  Career  In 1901, as chairman of the Associated Charities' Public Playground Committee, he opened the first public playground in the District of Columbia, and he remained active in playgrounds in the District for years. He served on inaugural committees and led the George Washington Bicentennial efforts in DC until poor health forced him to resign. He was on the board...
James Bodenstedt is the former President and CEO of MUY! Brands, an operator of franchised restaurants, including Wendy's and the Yum! Brands of Taco Bell, KFC, Pizza Hut, and others. He and his wife were major donors to President Donald Trump's 2020 election campaign, donating more than 1 million. MUY! Brands and its subsidiaries were among the first companies to receive coronavirus relief aid by the Trump administration.  Early life  Bodenstedt discovered his passion for business while working for McDonalds as a teen, taking their management training program at the age of 16 and by 17, he was a general manager. James would later go on to receive his bachelor's degree in accounting from University of Texas at San Antonio and in 2003 founded MUY Brands.  Career  Bodenstedt was chief operating officer and chief financial officer of RL Foods in 2010 while building MUY.  MUY! Brands  MUY! Brands also known as MUY! Companies, MUY Brands, Muy Restaurants, Muy Consulting, or Muy Cos is based in San Antonio, Texas. Bodenstedt purchased 18 Texas locations in 2003 to start MUY!. By 2010 it had 118 locations, by 2012 it had 230 locations in Texas and New Mexico, and at least...
Benot Pierre Peschier is a French-Greek slalom canoeist who competed at the international level from 1997 to 2014. He represented Greece from 2009 to 2010. In 2013 he returned to the international scene representing France. Peschier won a gold medal in the K1 event at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. He also won two medals in the K1 team event at the ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships with a gold in 2005 and a bronze in 2002. His younger brother Nicolas is a multiple medalist from world and European championships in canoe slalom. Their father Claude is world champion in the K1 event from 1969.  World Cup individual podiums   References  ICF medalists for Olympic and World Championships - Part 2: rest of flatwater and remaining canoeing disciplines: 1936-2007.  External links  Benot Peschier at Olympedia Benot Peschier at Olympics.com Benot Peschier at quipe de France
Masiniyeh-ye Sofla Persian:  , also Romanized as Masnyeh-ye Sofl and Moseynyeh-ye Sofl also known as Masnyeh, Mohsenyeh, and Moseynyeh is a village in Abdoliyeh-ye Gharbi Rural District, in the Central District of Ramshir County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 120, in 14 families.  References 
Sir John Henry Kennaway, 3rd Baronet, was an English Conservative Party politician.  Early life and education  Kennaway was born on 6 June 1837 in Park Crescent, London, England, to Sir John Kennaway, 2nd Baronet and Emily Frances Kennaway . He was educated at Harrow School, an all-boys public school in London. He studied law and modern history at Balliol College, Oxford, graduating with a first class Bachelor of Arts degree.  Career   Political career  Kennaway was Member of Parliament for East Devon from 1870 to 1885, when the constituency was abolished by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. He was then MP for the new Honiton constituency from 1885 until the January 1910 general election. He was made a Privy Counsellor in 1897 and appointed CB in the 1902 Coronation Honours. From 1908 to 1910 he was Father of the House of Commons.  Other work  He was called to the bar at Inner Temple in 1864. He practiced as a barrister in the western circuit. He was a governor at the Kings School Ottery St Mary. As homage to him the school has named one of its houses after him-Kennaway. Kennaway served as an officer in...
A field trip or excursion is a journey by a group of associated peers, such as coworkers or school students, to a place away from their normal environment for the purpose of education or leisure, either within their country or abroad. When arranged by a school administration for students, it is also known as school trip in the United Kingdom, Australia, Kenya, New Zealand and Bangladesh, and school tour in Ireland. A 2022 study, which used randomized controlled trial data, found that culturally enriching field trips led students to show a greater interest in arts, greater tolerance for people with different views, and boosted their educational outcomes.  Overview  The purpose of the field trip is usually observation for education, non-experimental research or to provide students with experiences outside their everyday activities, such as going camping with teachers and their classmates. The aim of this research is to observe the subject in its natural state and possibly collect samples. It is seen that more-advantaged children may have already experienced cultural institutions outside of school, and field trips provide common ground between more-advantaged and less-advantaged children...
FC Schalke 04 is a German women's association football team based in Gelsenkirchen, North Rhine-Westphalia.  History   DJK Eintracht Erle  In 1974, a women's football department was founded in Gelsenkirchen-Erle, four years after the ban on women's football was lifted. Early regulations differed from men's football, with shorter playing times and modified equipment. DJK Eintracht Erle reached the final of the first official German Women's Championship but lost to TuS Wrrstadt.  1975-1987: The first era  Former Schalke 04 president Gnter Siebert sought to establish a women's division, influenced by the success of DJK Eintracht Erle and Schalke's involvement in the Bundesliga scandal. Facing financial struggles, Eintracht Erle agreed to join Schalke, with a friendly match generating funds for Erle. In 1975, Schalke 04 officially established its women's football division after integrating DJK Eintracht Erle. The team began competing in the Bezirksliga, the highest league at the time, with limited resources but growing recognition. Schalke 04's women's team made pioneering strides in Westphalian football, winning the Westfalenmeisterschaft five times 1977, 1980, 1981, 1984...
Kiara Elizabeth Nowlin Barry is an American retired gymnast and cheerleader. She competed on the U.S. Junior National Trampoline and Tumbling Team and was a three-time gold medalist at the World Age Games. She was also a three-time gold medalist at The Cheerleading Worlds. She signed with Baylor University as a member of the acrobatics and tumbling team, where she won multiple national titles.  Early life and education  Nowlin was born on November 27, 1995, in Oxnard, California to William and Monique Nowlin. She attended Oaks Christian High School in Westlake Village before attending Baylor University, where she studied health sciences before switching to public relations and Mandarin Chinese. She earned a graduate degree in business administration from California Lutheran University.  Career   Gymnastics  Nowlin began training in gymnastics when she was eighteen months old. When she was eight years old, she transitioned from artistic gymnastics to power tumbling. She competed in her first world championship in Canada for the 11-12 age group, followed by a championship in Russia for the 13-14 age group, followed by a championship in France for the...
Gomez-Perez v. Potter, 553 U.S. 474 , is a labor law case of the United States Supreme Court holding that federal employees can assert claims for retaliation resulting from filing an age discrimination complaint. The case continued the Court's long-standing position that cause for action following retaliation can be inferred in civil rights legislation, even though the law does not explicitly provide protection against victimization. The case is important because it signaled a willingness by recently appointed Justice Samuel Alito to continue the Court's expansive interpretation of civil rights laws.  Background  Myrna Gmez-Prez worked for the United States Postal Service as a part-time window distribution clerk in Puerto Rico. Ms. Gmez-Prez sought a transfer to a full-time position however, her supervisor denied her request. Ms. Gmez-Prez alleged that the supervisor denied the request based on her age and filed an EEO complaint on the basis of age discrimination. Subsequently, Ms. Gmez-Prez alleged that, as a result of filing her complaint, in retaliation she was subjected to a series of reprisals that included groundless charges of sexual harassment, substantial...
The College of Education  Health Professions is the University of Arkansas's college for students with interest in the education and health professions. The college has five departments, and an honors program through the Honors College. In 2015, Fulbright College awarded the second-most undergraduate degrees of the eight colleges at the University of Arkansas.  Departments  Curriculum and Instruction Education Reform Eleanor Mann School of Nursing Health, Human Performance and Recreation Rehabilitation, Human Resources and Communication Disorders The College of Education and Health Professions' Honors Program  Mann School of Nursing  Two degrees are offered by the School of Nursing, the Bachelor of Science in Nursing, and a cohort-based Master of Science in Nursing Online Clinical Program, which will take a full-time student 2 years to complete.  Facilities  A gallery shows the facilities of the college, with years used in parentheses.  References 
Trn c Cng born May 20, 1985, in Vinh City, Ngh An, Vietnam is a Vietnamese former footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Vietnamese club Becamex Bnh Dng. He is second goalkeeper of Vietnam national football team played at 2008 AFF Suzuki Cup.  Club career   Becamex Bnh Dng  c Cng signed a 2-year deal with Becamex Bnh Dng in November 2015.  Honours  Sng Lam Ngh An V.League 1: 2000-01 Vietnamese National Cup: 2002 Vietnamese Super Cup: 2000, 2001, 2002 SHB  Nng V.League 1: 2009 Runner-up 2005 Vietnamese National Cup: 2009 Vietnamese Super Cup: Runner-up 2009 Becamex Bnh Dng Vietnamese National Cup: 2018 Runner-up 2017 Vietnamese Super Cup: 2016 Runner-up 2019 Vietnam AFF Championship: 2008  References   External links  Trn c Cng at National-Football-Teams.com
KBW may refer to: KBW, the National Rail station code for Knebworth railway station, North Hertfordshire, England Korpus Bezpieczestwa Wewntrznego or Internal Security Corps, a Polish military organization Kommunistischer Bund Westdeutschland, the Communist League of West Germany Keefe, Bruyette  Woods, an investment bank Kevin Bloody Wilson, Australian comedy musician
The Waterman Hmisphre is a pen introduced in 1994 by the French pen company, Waterman. The Hmisphre is a light pen that has a cigar shaped barrel with a beveled top and usual Waterman clip. It comes in many colours , a lacquer finish, or a brushed chrome or gold finish. The clip comes in chrome or 24-karat gold finish. In Japan, this model is known as the Waterman Metropolitan. The pen is famous for being used by American horror writer, Stephen King, who has publicly stated that he handwrites his first drafts, using the Waterman Hemisphere.  Images   References 
The house finch is a North American bird in the finch family. It is native to Mexico and southwestern United States, but has since been introduced to the eastern part of North America and Hawaii, and is found year-round in almost all parts of the United States and most of Mexico, with breeding grounds well into Canada as far north as northern Alberta. There are estimated to be 40 million house finches across North America, making it the second-most populous finch, just behind the American goldfinch. The house finch and the other two American rosefinches are placed in the genus Haemorhous.  Distribution and habitat  House finches are mainly permanent residents throughout their range some birds migrate to the south, with adult females moving longer distances than males. Their breeding habitat is urban and suburban areas across North America, as well as various semi-open areas in the west from southern Canada to the Mexican state of Oaxaca the population in central Chiapas may be descended from escaped cagebirds. Analyses of nest records from house finches in California spanning more than a century found that egglaying occurred...
Liu Jun , courtesy name iuming , nickname Hutou , was an imperial prince of the Chinese Liu Song dynasty. He was a son of Emperor Wen, who in 453 conspired with his older brother Liu Shao the Crown Prince to assassinate their father so that Liu Shao could become emperor. They were subsequently defeated by their brother Liu Jun the Prince of Wuling and executed. Liu Jun's sons, daughters, and concubines were also executed. Only his Princess Chu, because he had divorced her immediately prior to his capture, was spared.  Background  Liu Jun was born in 429, as Emperor Wen's second son. His mother was Emperor Wen's favorite concubine, Consort Pan. In 436, at the age of eight , he was created the Prince of Shixing . Starting in 439, he became a provincial governor, being rotated to various provinces, although his chiefs of staff were actually in charge of administering the provincial matters due to his youth. As he grew older, he became more and more actually involved in the duties of provincial governorships. He was considered an avid reader and careful in cultivating his appearance. In September...
Lake Mitchell is one of two lakes in Wexford County, Michigan, that are joined by the Clam Lake Canal. The other lake is Lake Cadillac. Mitchell State Park is located on Lake Mitchell. Bluegill, Pumpkinseed Sunfish, Black Crappie, Rock Bass, Northern Pike, Walleye, Smallmouth Bass, Largemouth Bass, Bullhead are types of fish in Lake Mitchell.  History  Prehistorically, the area surrounding Lake Mitchell was inhabited by the Hopewell civilization. After the Hopewell disappeared, the area became used seasonally by the Anishinaabe. The lake was the southern terminus of what is now called the Old Indian Trail, an ancient pathway that was used to connect the Cadillac area with Grand Traverse Bay at what is now Traverse City. Historically, Lake Mitchell was referred to as Big Clam Lake, and Clam Lake is still shown in the USGS official Geographic Names Information System as a variant name for Lake Mitchell. In 1873, local businessman George A. Mitchell founded the village of Clam Lake and constructed the canal connecting Big Clam Lake to Little Clam Lake. At the time, the canal enabled logging on the west side of Lake Mitchell logs floated through...
Engineering economics, previously known as engineering economy, is a subset of economics concerned with the use and ...application of economic principles in the analysis of engineering decisions. As a discipline, it is focused on the branch of economics known as microeconomics in that it studies the behavior of individuals and firms in making decisions regarding the allocation of limited resources. Thus, it focuses on the decision making process, its context and environment. It is pragmatic by nature, integrating economic theory with engineering practice. But, it is also a simplified application of microeconomic theory in that it assumes elements such as price determination, competition and demandsupply to be fixed inputs from other sources. As a discipline though, it is closely related to others such as statistics, mathematics and cost accounting. It draws upon the logical framework of economics but adds to that the analytical power of mathematics and statistics. Engineers seek solutions to problems, and along with the technical aspects, the economic viability of each potential solution is normally considered from a specific viewpoint that reflects its economic utility to a constituency...
Information economics or the economics of information is the branch of microeconomics that studies how information and information systems affect an economy and economic decisions. One application considers information embodied in certain types of commercial products that are expensive to produce but cheap to reproduce. Examples include computer software , pharmaceuticals and technical books. Once information is recorded on paper, in a computer, or on a compact disc, it can be reproduced and used by a second person essentially for free. Without the basic research, initial production of high-information commodities may be too unprofitable to market, a type of market failure. Government subsidization of basic research has been suggested as a way to mitigate the problem. The subject of information economics is treated under Journal of Economic Literature classification code JEL D8 - Information, Knowledge, and Uncertainty. This article reflects topics included in that code. There are several subfields of information economics. Information as signal has been described as a kind of negative measure of uncertainty. It includes complete and scientific knowledge...
The Chicago school of economics is a neoclassical school of economic thought associated with the work of the faculty at the University of Chicago, some of whom have constructed and popularized its principles. Milton Friedman and George Stigler are considered the leading scholars of the Chicago school. Chicago macroeconomic theory rejected Keynesianism in favor of monetarism until the mid-1970s, when it turned to new classical macroeconomics heavily based on the concept of rational expectations. The freshwater-saltwater distinction is largely antiquated today, as the two traditions have heavily incorporated ideas from each other. Specifically, new Keynesian economics was developed as a response to new classical economics, electing to incorporate the insight of rational expectations without giving up the traditional Keynesian focus on imperfect competition and sticky wages. Chicago economists have also left their intellectual influence in other fields, notably in pioneering public choice theory and law and economics, which have led to revolutionary changes in the study of political science and law. Other economists affiliated with Chicago have made their impact in fields as diverse as...
Economics was a British-bred racehorse that raced in Great Britain, France, and Ireland. He is best known for his victory in the 2024 edition of the Irish Champion Stakes over six-time Group One winner Auguste Rodin, the only Group One win of his career. He would reach a peak IFHA rating of 123 in October 2024, joint fifth place in world rankings.  Background  Economics is a chestnut stallion with a white blaze and three stockings. He is sired by the successful sire Night of Thunder, winner of the Doncaster Stakes, 2000 Guineas, and the Lockinge Stakes and sire of Highfield Princess, Ombudsman, and Desert Flower. He is out of the mare La Pomme D'Amour, two-time winner of the group two Prix de Pomone. He was bred by Copgrove Hall Stud in Yorkshire, who also bred Peintre Celebre , Amiloc, and Arcangues. He was later sold at the Tattersalls December foal sale for 42,000 guineas as a foal to Hazelwood Bloodstock then resold as a yearling, again at Tattersalls, to Highclere Agency for 160,000 guineas.  Race record  Economics would make his only start as a two year old in the class four British EBF Novice Stakes at Newmarket,...
Demographic economics or population economics is the application of economic analysis to demography, the study of human populations, including size, growth, density, distribution, and vital statistics.  Aspects  Aspects of the subject include: marriage and fertility the family divorce morbidity and life expectancymortality dependency ratios migration population growth population size public policy the demographic transition from population explosion to stability or decline. Other subfields include measuring value of life and the economics of the elderly and the handicapped and of gender, race, minorities, and non-labor discrimination. In coverage and subfields, it complements labor economics and implicates a variety of other economics subjects.  Subareas  The Journal of Economic Literature classification codes are a way of categorizing subjects in economics. There, demographic economics is paired with labour economics as one of 19 primary classifications at JEL: J. It has eight subareas: General Demographic Trends and Forecasts Marriage Marital Dissolution Family Structure Fertility Family Planning Child Care Children Youth Economics of the Elderly Economics...
Robot economics is the study of the market for robots. Robot markets function through the interaction of robot makers and robot users. As a factor of production, robots are complements andor substitutes for other factors, such as labor and capital goods. Another part of robot economics considers the effects of the introduction of robots on the markets for those other factors and on the products that robots help produce. Robots are spreading throughout the economy, in fields such as agriculture, medicine and retail.  Markets   Agriculture  The use of robots in agriculture began with automated milking systems. More recently, agricultural robots have begun to be used in harvesting, pruning, seeding, spraying and materials handling.  Medicine  Medical robots can be categorized in five segments: surgery, rehabilitation, non-invasive radiosurgery, hospital and pharmacy and others. Robot-assisted surgery can improve accuracy. However, medical robots can increase costs. The market was valued at 1,781 million in 2013. Hospital and pharmacy robots segment grew fastest.  Retail  Robots can be used in retail for helping customers find items, keep track of...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 458 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The syntax of computer source code is code structured and ordered restricted to computer language rules. Like a natural language, a computer language defines the syntax that is valid for that language. A syntax error occurs when syntactically invalid source code is processed by a tool such as a compiler or interpreter. The most commonly used languages are text-based with syntax based on strings. Alternatively, the syntax of a visual programming language is based on relationships between graphical elements. When designing syntax, a designer of any language might start by writing down examples of both legal and illegal strings, before trying to figure out the general rules from those examples in use. Such that its general structure of syntax can be determined through its form of composition, so to yield semantically valid ranges everytime for each possible alteration. Or else, it returns errors, and warnings, for each invalid input.  Levels of syntax  Computer language syntax is generally distinguished into three levels: Words - the lexical level, determining how characters form tokens Phrases - the grammar level, narrowly speaking, determining how...
RPL is a handheld calculator operating system and application programming language used on Hewlett-Packard's scientific graphing RPN calculators of the HP 28, 48, 49 and 50 series, but it is also usable on non-RPN calculators, such as the 38, 39 and 40 series. Internally, it was also utilized by the 17B, 18C, 19B and 27S. RPL is a structured programming language based on RPN, but equally capable of processing algebraic expressions and formulae, implemented as a threaded interpreter. RPL has many similarities to Forth, both languages being stack-based, as well as the list-based LISP. Contrary to previous HP RPN calculators, which had a fixed four-level stack, the dynamic stack used by RPL is only limited by available RAM, with the calculator displaying an error message when running out of memory rather than silently dropping arguments off the stack as in fixed-sized RPN stacks. RPL originated from HP's Corvallis, Oregon development facility in 1984 as a replacement for the previous practice of implementing the operating systems of calculators in assembly language. The first calculator utilizing it internally was the HP-18C and the first calculator making...
Glenn Coan , better known by the ring name Conan Chris Walker, is an American retired professional wrestler. Walker is best known for his time with the Global Wrestling Federation where he was one-half of the first GWF North American Tag Team Champions, along with Steve Simpson. He also formed notable tag teams with Curtis Thompson and Fabian. In his career, Walker also had brief stints with various wrestling promotions: Georgia All-Star Wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling, Smoky Mountain Wrestling, Southern States Wrestling and United States Wrestling Association. Additionally, he toured Europe with World Martial Arts Wrestling Federation and Japan with Super World Sports.  Professional wrestling career   World Wrestling Federation  After completing training, Walker made his debut teaming with Butch Stanley in a tag-team match against The Powers of Pain on Jan 2, 1990. Walker was used as an enhancement talent, the match being taped in Birmingham, Alabama.  United States Wrestling Association  Walker received his first full-time stint when he joined the USWA a year later in February 1991. In his debut, he defeated Tom Prichard...
The 1991-92 Eintracht Frankfurt season was the 92nd season in the club's football history. In 1991-92 the club played in the Bundesliga, the top tier of German football. It was the club's 29th season in the Bundesliga. The season ended up with Eintracht claiming the 3rd position in the reunited Germany's Bundesliga, losing the championship on the last match day when already relegated Rostock won the match.  Friendlies  Win Draw Loss  Indoor soccer tournament   Competitions  Win Draw Loss  Bundesliga   League table   Results by round   Matches   DFB-Pokal   UEFA Cup   Squad   Squad and statistics   Notes   References   Sources   External links  Official English Eintracht website Archived 2017-10-02 at the Wayback Machine German archive site 1991-92 Bundesliga season at Fussballdaten.de
Lago di Arignano is a lake located in the eponymous municipality of the Metropolitan City of Turin. Count Paolo Remigio Costa della Trinit created this large irrigation basin, which is also the largest body of water in the entire Torinese Hill in 1838. Located in the Cremera region, on the borders of the municipalities of Marentino and Arignano.  Description  The site, originally a vast depression covered with grass, was favourable due to the slightly concave terrain and required only a dam downstream. The construction of the reservoir was opposed by some landowners, who were expropriated of their lands and contested the public utility value, expressing doubts that the body of water would make the air unhealthy. However, Count Costa's determination allowed all obstacles to be overcome, until on 5 February 1839 Charles Albert granted the royal patents authorising the works, which proceeded very quickly. The promoter of the work, however, barely had time to see his project realised before he died on 5 December 1839. With the fill material, an islet was created in the centre of the lake, which, covered with vegetation, became a place for recreation...
Anthony or Antony Williams may refer to:  Government  Anthony Williams , former British Ambassador to Cambodia, Libya and Argentina Anthony Williams , American Civil War sailor and Medal of Honor recipient Anthony Williams, candidate in the United States House of Representatives elections in Illinois, 2010 Anthony A. Williams , mayor of Washington D.C., 1999-2007 Anthony D. Williams , Liberian politician Anthony D. Williams Jr. , Liberian politician Anthony H. Williams , Pennsylvania State Senator  Sports  Anthony Ratliff-Williams , American football player Anthony Williams Jr. , American football player Anthony Williams , Irish sportsman Anthony Williams , Welsh former goalkeeper  Others  Anthony Williams , Anglican bishop in the Caribbean Anthony Williams , Welsh artist Anthony Williams , Trinidadian music pioneer and inventor of the steel pans Anthony Williams or Roc Raida , American turntablist and hip hop deejay Anthony D. Williams author...
Ikarbus IK-206 is an articulated city bus built by the Serbian bus manufacturer Ikarbus from 2006. The model IK-206 was developed from previous Ikarbus city articulated models, Ikarbus IK-201 and its variants, IK-202 and IK-203. The production has started in 2006 and same year the production of older IK-201, IK-202, and IK-203 models has been ceased. The main difference between those three models and new IK-206 is that IK-201, IK-202 and IK-203 had horizontal engine mounted under the floor between the front and middle A- and B-axles, and only the B-axle is powered, while IK-206 has rear-mounted vertical MAN engine. IK-206 is visually similar to older IK-201, IK-203 and IK-203, due it has modernized and more comfortable interior design, modern windows and front bezel headlights. It has 44 passenger seats made plastic on foundation of steel bars and bars for holding. Doors are four two-wing, pneumatically controlled and opened to the inside. There are seven windows with slide rule and four roof airshafts. The heating system consists from heater on front wall, three heaters in passengers compartment and big aircondition on roof. Roof and sides are isolated. The IK-206 is today used mainly...
Drag-yab is a Sino-Tibetan language recently documented by Suzuki  Nyima . It is spoken in the southern half of Zhag'yab County, Chamdo, eastern Tibet. Suzuki  Nyima document the dialect of Drag-yab spoken in the village of Razi  in iangdui Town , Zhag'yab County.  Names  Drag-yab is referred to by the Changdu Gazetteer as Zesong , and is reported by Changdu to be spoken in Zesong  and Bari  townships of Zhag'yab County. The language is also referred to as both sMa and rMa. Nyima  Suzuki report the autonym ma55 , which is identical to the Larong autonym, also reported by them . Jiang lists Mang  and Maji  as Drag-yab varieties.  Classification  Suzuki  Nyima note that Drag-yab is closely related to two other recently documented Sino-Tibetan languages of Chamdo, eastern Tibet, namely Lamo and Larong. Their relationship outside of this group, the Chamdo languages, within the Sino-Tibetan family is still uncertain.  Phonology  Suzuki  Nyima report the following phonemes from the Razi dialect of Drag-yab. Prenasalisation and preaspiration appear as a preinitial...
The 2021-22 Vegas Golden Knights season was the fifth season for the National Hockey League franchise that started playing in the 2017-18 season. Despite high expectations entering the season, the Golden Knights missed the playoffs for the first time in franchise history, as they were eliminated from playoff contention following a 4-3 shootout loss to the Chicago Blackhawks on April 27, 2022.  Standings   Divisional standings   Conference standings   Schedule and results   Regular season  The regular season schedule was published on July 22, 2021. Due to COVID-19-related postponements and the NHL's withdrawal from Olympic participation, substantial updates to the schedule were published on January 19, 2022.  Player statistics  Updated to games played April 29, 2022  Skaters   Goaltenders  Denotes player spent time with another team before joining the Golden Knights. Stats reflect time with the Golden Knights only. Denotes player was traded or waived mid-season. Stats reflect time with the Golden Knights only. Bolditalics denotes franchise record.  Transactions  The Golden Knights have been involved in...
Yennora railway station is a suburban railway station located on the Main Southern line, serving the Sydney suburb of Yennora. It is served by Sydney Trains T2 Leppington  Inner West Line and T5 Cumberland Line services.  History  Yennora station opened on 6 November 1927 as an infill station, and was funded by the local McCredie family who were interested in land in the vicinity. The funding was provided with hopes the station would 'open up' access to the area, and on the initial condition that the cost of the station would be refunded when profits over three years justified such a refund.  Services   Platforms   Transport links  Yennora station is served by one NightRide route: N60: Fairfield station to Town Hall station  References   External links  Media related to Yennora railway station at Wikimedia Commons Yennora station details Transport for New South Wales
Fort Wayne, Indiana, is home to several sports teams. These include the NBA's Fort Wayne Pistons , the Fort Wayne Daisies of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, and the Fort Wayne Kekiongas of the National Association of Professional Baseball  History  Fort Wayne has been home to a few sports firsts. On June 2, 1883, Fort Wayne hosted the Quincy Professionals for one of the first lighted baseball games ever recorded. Fort Wayne has been credited for being the birthplace of the NBA when Fort Wayne Pistons owner Fred Zollner brokered the merger of the BAA and the NBL in 1949 from his kitchen table. The Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons, who later became the Detroit Pistons, were charter members of the National Basketball League and won back-to-back NBL championships in 1944 and 1945. Also, on March 10, 1961, Wilt Chamberlain became the first player in the NBA to reach 3,000 points in a single season while competing at Memorial Coliseum. Fort Wayne hosted two NBA Finals Games in 1955 and 1956, as well as the third city to host the NBA All-Star Game in 1953. The Allen County War Memorial Coliseum was also venue to the 2000 NCAA Men...
Rio Bananal Futebol Clube, commonly known as Rio Bananal, is a Brazilian football club based in Rio Bananal, Esprito Santo state.  History  The club was founded on January 17, 2007. They finished in the second position in the Campeonato Capixaba Second Level in 2008, losing the competition to Serra.  Stadium  Rio Bananal Futebol Clube play their home games at Estdio Virglio Grassi. The stadium has a maximum capacity of 4,000 people.  References 
Nashwa Mustafa , is an Egyptian Actor. She is best known for the roles in the films El-Rehla, El-Farah and in the television shows The Family of Mr Shalash and Mahmoud the Egyptian.  Personal life  Nashwa Mustafa was born on 15 October 1968 in Cairo, Egypt. She is married to Mohammed Emad, who lived in USA for a long period of time. However he returned Egypt to have a religious wedding according to their tradition. They married in 1993 and have two children, Maryam and Abdulrahman. Her son Abdulrahman married in July 2019.  Career  She started her television career in 1990 in the popular comedy serial The Family of Mr Shalash, she played the role 'Enas' in the serial. Her next role was in the serial Conscience of Teacher Hikmat. She played the role 'Abeer' in that serial. Then in 1999, she made her film debut with the film El-Farah. In 2001, she acted in the popular Egyptian adventure comedy film Africano, where she played the role 'Zainab'. The film was theatrically released and made its premier on 11 July 2001 in Egypt. In 2013, she hosts the television program Cash Taxi, which was the Egyptian version of British international game show Cash Cab British...
Richard Joseph Fagan is a businessman who created the Kijani Commodity Fund in 2011, later embroiled in a 16bn Ponzi scheme probe. Richard Fagan was fined 62m by Gibraltar's Supreme Court for his role in defrauding investors through the Kijani Commodity and Ratio funds. Fagan is the former captain of the Irish international polo team and also plays for Silex, Opel-Royal Salute, Badrutt's Palace Hotel and El Trebol, among others.  Early life  Fagan was born in September 1971. He headed a family automotive broker and motor repair chain . In February 2006, he was a member of Los Griffos and won the Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club Arena Gold Cup. Fagan also won the Junior County Cup in 2006 with the Autodex polo team. He moved to Gibraltar in 2007 to work in the territory's investing industry.  Business career  In 2011, Fagan started the Kijani Commodity Fund, which pitched investments to small commodity producers. The fund - originally domiciled in Mauritius - managed more than 130 million in assets. In 2014, the Mauritius Financial Services Commission began investigating Belvedere Management Group, belonging to David Cosgrove, and suspended two of...
The Old Swan Tramway operated a horse-drawn tramway service in Liverpool from 1861 to 1862.  History  The Liverpool Road and Railway Omnibus Company was formed in 1860 by local horse-drawn omnibus proprietors, including William Busby, John Gates and Thomas Lloyd. They obtained permission from the trustees of the Prescott turnpike road to lay down a line of rails between the borough boundary at Fairfield to the Old Swann. Construction started in June 1861. The rail was laid in the centre of the road and consisted of an iron plate four inches broad with a flange on each edge rising 38 in , leaving a groove for the wheel. The tops of the flanges were level with the road surface. The space between the rails was paved with granite sets and the line extended for 1.5 miles . The rail carriages were designed to accommodate 40 passengers and were built by the Oldbury Carriage Works in Birmingham. The construction cost in the region of 2,000 . A trial trip took place over the tramway on 2 July 1861. The tramway opened to the public on 26 July 1861. The company claimed that the trial proved that the rail provided no obstruction and did...
The Persian Constitutional Amendment was a constitutional amendment in 107 articles that aimed to eliminate the shortcomings of the original Persian constitution that had occurred due to the hasty nature of its draft, fearing the looming death of Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar who had agreed to limit his own powers, and the ascension to the throne of the anti-constitutionalist crown prince Mohammad Ali Mirza. It was ratified by the first parliament and signed by Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar on 7 October 1907. The original text of the amendment is kept at the national library of Iran.  History  In early 20th century, a series of protests forced Mozaffar ed-Din Shah Qajar to agree to the limiting of his powers which were previously absolute and adopt a more constitutional form of governance. However, the old Shah was sickly and his death would have resulted in his strictly anti-constitutionalist son reaching power. Therefore, the constitutionalists hastily drafted the text of the constitution so that they could present it to the dying shah before his departure. They also wrote it in a way to avoid offending the monarch as much as possible which resulted in many...
Nightmare Cops is an upcoming 2D platforming brawler video game developed by Tom Fulp and Jeff JohnnyUtah Bandelin under Newgrounds. The game takes place in a town overseen by a police force tasked with entering and combating the inhabitants' nightmares. The game has seen an over ten-year long development cycle and has no tentative release date currently set however, as of 2024, development is more than halfway to completion according to the development team.  Gameplay  Nightmare Cops can be played by up to three players and features a selection of different characters to play as, each with different move sets and abilities. Levels contain platforming segments and boss fights, and are accessible through an overworld in the real world which you navigate in the crew's van. Many decorative elements of the overworld map are destructible.  Development  According to Fulp, development on Nightmare Cops began in 2012 with Bandelin alongside the web game project Cathode Raybots. A lip-sync animation system developed for the game was packaged as an interactive Flash called Talk Head and posted to Newgrounds the same year. In 2016, It was announced in a blog post that Cory Spazkid...
Maglaj is a town and municipality located in the Zenica-Doboj Canton of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is located in northern Bosnia and Herzegovina, 25 km south of Doboj. It has a population of 6,438, with 34,980 inhabitants in the municipality.  Population   Ethnic composition   Geography  The town is situated in the northern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is situated in territory where Bosniaks presently form a large majority. The old Maglaj, like numerous other cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has an old town with mosques, traditional houses dating back from the Ottoman Empire, and a fortress that stands as a symbol of Maglaj. The new part of Maglaj, situated on the West side of the river Bosna, is made up of modern architecture that was started in the 1950s, and became massively developed until 1991. The Bosna flows through Maglaj on its way north to the Sava river on the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Before the Bosnian War, the Bosna river was heavily polluted due to heavy industrial activity at the nearby Natron paper and pulp factory, as well as steel and...
Eliaszuki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Narewka, within Hajnwka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus.  History  Following the joint German-Soviet invasion of Poland, which started World War II in September 1939, the village was first occupied by the Soviet Union until 1941, and then by Germany until 1944. The Germans deported 18 young people to forced labour in Germany. In March 1942, the German gendarmerie expelled the entire population, and then plundered and destroyed the village. The purpose of the expulsion was to hinder the activities of the resistance movement in the area. After the war, the village was rebuilt.  References 
Linthal railway station is a railway station in the municipality of Glarus Sd in the Swiss canton of Glarus. It is the terminus of the Weesen to Linthal railway line, and serves the village of Linthal. The station is the terminus of the hourly Zrich S-Bahn service S25 from Zurich. The station is also the terminus of a PostBus Switzerland service to Fluelen station, on the Gothard railway and Lake Lucerne, which provides several daily return journeys across the Klausen Pass between May and September. Outside that period, a minibus service called the Urnerboden Sprinter provides three connections a day to Urnerboden on the route to the pass.  Services  As of the December 2023 timetable change, the following services call at Linthal railway station: St. Gallen S-Bahn: S6: hourly service to Rapperswil via Ziegelbrcke . Zrich S-Bahn: S25: hourly service to Zrich HB via Ziegelbrcke.  References   External links  Linthal railway station - SBB
Janjal Pura is a Pakistani humorous situation comedy television series broadcast on Pakistan Television Corporation, Lahore center, and was based on a stag play. The story is set in a fictional small town where residents, each driven by different passions and temperaments, constantly vie to outdo one another. At the heart of the drama lie themes of family planning and population control. It was written by Shahid Nadeem and directed by Tariq Jamil. It first aired in 1996.  Plot  Maasi Phatto, Raju Nai, Khwaja Sara Reema and Resham, cunning nurses of family planning and the newly appointed gynecologist lady doctor are some of the characters who live in the fictional town and try to raise the standard of living there. All of its inhabitants work hard in their respective fields, but they are not on good terms with each other and try to outdo each other. However, they unite when their hometown is threatened by some foreign danger.  Cast  Nayyar Ejaz as Cheemi Guru Mehmood Aslam as Reema Savera Nadeem as Dr. Mahjabeen Khalid Butt as Master Hidayat Ullah Madeeha Gauhar as Politician Asim Bukhari as Sheikh Sharakat Naseem Vicky as Chambeli Mehwish as Aapa Sughran Ashraf Khan as Kareem...
In a society, high culture encompasses cultural objects of aesthetic value that a society collectively highly esteems. It can include works of art , history, and philosophy that a society considers respectable representatives of its culture. In popular usage, the term high culture identifies the culture either of the upper class or of a status class  high culture also identifies a society's common repository of broad-range knowledge and tradition that transcends its social-class system. Sociologically, the term is contrasted with low culture, which comprises the forms of popular culture characteristic of the less-educated social classes, such as the barbarians, the philistines, and hoi polloi , although in practice the upper classes very often also enjoy low culture and lower classes also enjoy high culture. Matthew Arnold introduced the term high culture in his 1869 book Culture and Anarchy. Its preface defines culture as the disinterested endeavour after man's perfection pursued, obtained, and achieved by effort to know the best that has been said and thought in the world. Such...
Hookup culture is the acceptance and encouragement of casual sexual encounters, including one-night stands and related activities, without necessarily including emotional intimacy, bonding or a committed relationship. It is generally associated with Western late adolescent sexuality and, in particular, United States college culture. The term hookup has an ambiguous definition because it can indicate kissing or any form of physical sexual activity between sexual partners. The term has been widely used in the U.S. since at least 2000. It has also been called nonrelationship sex, or sex without dating. Most research on hookups has been focused on U.S. college students however, hookups are not limited to college campuses. Adolescents and emerging adults engage in hookups for a variety of reasons, which may include from instant physical gratification, to fulfillment of emotional needs, to using it as a means of finding a long-term romantic partner. Media reaction to hookup culture has been often considered as a form of moral panic. The introduction of cell phones, mobile hookup apps and websites has modernized hookup culture, especially among gay men.  History  The rise of hookups,...
The Nok culture is a population whose material remains are named after the Ham village of Nok in southern Kaduna State of Nigeria, where their terracotta sculptures were first discovered in 1928. The Nok people and the Gajiganna people may have migrated from the Central Sahara, along with pearl millet and pottery, and diverged prior to arriving in the northern region of modern-day Nigeria. This may have led to their respective settlements in the regions of Gajiganna and Nok. Nok people may have also migrated from the West African Sahel to the region of Nok. Nok culture may have emerged in 1500 BCE and continued to persist until 1 BCE. Nok people may have developed terracotta sculptures, through large-scale economic production, as part of a complex funerary culture that may have included practices such as feasting. The earliest Nok terracotta sculptures may have developed in 900 BCE. Some Nok terracotta sculptures portray figures wielding slingshots, as well as bows and arrows, which may be indicative of Nok people engaging in the hunting, or trapping, of undomesticated animals. A Nok sculpture portrays two individuals, along with their goods, in a dugout canoe. Both of the anthropomorphic...
The Sintashta culture is a Middle Bronze Age archaeological culture of the Southern Urals, dated to the period c. 2200-1900 BCE. It is the first phase of the Sintashta-Petrovka complex, c. 2200-1750 BCE. The culture is named after the Sintashta archaeological site, in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia, and spreads through Orenburg Oblast, Bashkortostan, and Northern Kazakhstan. Widely regarded as the origin of the Indo-Iranian languages, Sintashta culture is thought to represent an eastward migration of peoples from the Corded Ware culture. The earliest known chariots have been found in Sintashta burials, and the culture is considered a strong candidate for the origin of the technology, which spread throughout the Old World and played an important role in ancient warfare. Sintashta settlements are also remarkable for the intensity of copper mining and bronze metallurgy carried out there, which is unusual for a steppe culture. Among the main features of the Sintashta culture are high levels of militarism and extensive fortified settlements, of which 23 are known.  Origin  Because of the difficulty of identifying the remains of Sintashta sites beneath those of later settlements, the culture...
Culture shock is an experience a person may have when moving to a cultural environment which is different from one's own it is also the personal disorientation a person may feel when experiencing an unfamiliar way of life due to immigration or a visit to a new country, a move between social environments, or simply transition to another type of life. One of the most common causes of culture shock involves individuals in a foreign environment. Culture shock can be described as consisting of at least one of four distinct phases: honeymoon, negotiation, adjustment, and adaptation. Common problems include: information overload, language barrier, generation gap, technology gap, skill interdependence, formulation dependency, homesickness , boredom , ethnicity, race, skin color, and response ability . There is no true way to entirely prevent culture shock, as individuals in any society are personally affected by cultural contrasts differently. Culture shock is often experienced by students who participate in study abroad programs. Research considering the study abroad experiences states that in-country support for students may assist them in overcoming...
The Culture of Sweden is characterised by its art, music, dance, literature, traditions, religious practices and more. It is similar to but distinct from the cultures of neighboring countries. Sweden's modern history has a well-established tradition of science, technology and cultural creativity. Swedes have made significant contributions to biology and chemistry, as well as cinema, art, music, literature and the video game industry. The Nobel laureates for physics, chemistry, medicine and literature are chosen by Swedish academies.  History  Swedish culture is an offshoot of the Norse culture which dominated southern Scandinavia in prehistory. Sweden was the last of the Scandinavian countries to be Christianised, with pagan resistance apparently strongest in Svealand, where Uppsala was an old and important ritual site as evidenced by the tales of Uppsala temple. Like the rest of Scandinavia, Sweden had significant artistic, musical and literary traditions during the Viking Age. The oldest sources of written Swedish are runestones, and more of them are found in Sweden than in any other country. Swedish Vikings are known especially for founding the Kievan state, becoming powerful...
The Dorset was a Paleo-Eskimo culture, lasting from 500 BCE to between 1000 CE and 1500 CE, that followed the Pre-Dorset and preceded the Thule people in the North American Arctic. The culture and people are named after Cape Dorset in Nunavut, Canada, where the first physical evidence of its existence was found by western science. The culture has been defined as having four phases due to the distinct differences in the technologies relating to hunting and tool making. Artifacts include distinctive triangular end-blades, oil lamps made of soapstone, and burins. The Dorset were first identified as a separate culture in 1925. The Dorset appear to have been extinct by 1500 at the latest and perhaps as early as 1000. The Thule people, who began migrating east from Alaska in the 11th century, ended up spreading through the lands previously inhabited by the Dorset. It is not fully known whether the Inuit and Dorset ever met. Some modern genetic studies show the Dorset population were distinct from later groups and that there was virtually no evidence of genetic or cultural interaction between the Dorset and the Thule peoples. Inuit legends recount them...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 462 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Images, videos and memes of domestic cats make up some of the most viewed content on the World Wide Web. Cats have been shared via email since the Internet's rise to prominence in the 1990s. The subject has attracted the attention of various scholars and critics, who have analysed why this subject has reached iconic status. Although it may be considered frivolous, cat-related Internet content contributes to how people interact with media and culture. Some argue that there is a depth and complexity to this seemingly simple content, with a suggestion that the positive psychological effects that pets have on their owners also hold true for cat images viewed online. Some individual cats, such as Grumpy Cat and Lil Bub, have achieved popularity online because of their unusual appearances, considered humorous by internet users. Various popular Internet memes have been produced about cats.  History  Cats have been shared via email since the Internet's rise to prominence in the 1990s. The New York Times described cat images as that essential building block of the Internet. In addition, 2,594,329 cat images had been manually annotated on Flickr by users. An interesting phenomenon is that...
Internet governance is the effort by governments, the private sector, civil society, and technical actors to develop and apply shared principles, norms, rules, and decision-making procedures that shape the evolution and use of the Internet. This article describes how the Internet was and is currently governed, some inherent controversies, and ongoing debates regarding how and why the Internet should or should not be governed in the future.  Background  No person, company, organization or government runs the Internet. It is a globally distributed network comprising many voluntarily interconnected autonomous networks. It operates without a central governing body with each constituent network setting and enforcing its own policies. Its governance is conducted by a decentralized and international multistakeholder network of interconnected autonomous groups drawing from civil society, the private sector, governments, the academic and research communities and national and international organizations. They work cooperatively from their respective roles to create shared policies and standards that maintain the Internet's global interoperability for the public good. However, to help ensure...
Internet.org is a partnership between social networking services company Meta Platforms and six companies Samsung, Ericsson, MediaTek, Opera Software, Nokia and Qualcomm with the goal of providing affordable access to selected Internet services to less developed countries by increasing efficiency, and facilitating the development of new business models around the provision of Internet access. The app delivering these services was renamed Free Basics in September 2015. As of April 2018, 100 million people were using internet.org. It has been criticized for violating net neutrality, and by handpicking internet services that are included, for discriminating against companies not in the list, including competitors of Meta Platforms' subsidiary Facebook. In February 2016, regulators banned the Free Basics service in India based on Prohibition of Discriminatory Tariffs for Data Services Regulations. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India accused Facebook of failing to pass on the four questions in the regulator's consultation paper and of blocking access to TRAI's designated email for users to send feedback about Free Basics. On February 11, 2016, Facebook withdrew the Free...
Internet Protocol version 6 is the most recent version of the Internet Protocol , the communications protocol that provides an identification and location system for computers on networks and routes traffic across the Internet. IPv6 was developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force to deal with the long-anticipated problem of IPv4 address exhaustion, and was intended to replace IPv4. In December 1998, IPv6 became a Draft Standard for the IETF, which subsequently ratified it as an Internet Standard on 14 July 2017. Devices on the Internet are assigned a unique IP address for identification and location definition. With the rapid growth of the Internet after commercialization in the 1990s, it became evident that far more addresses would be needed to connect devices than the approximately 4 billion addresses IPv4 made available. By 1998, the IETF had formalized the successor protocol, IPv6. It uses 128-bit addresses, yielding an address space of 2128 addresses . Several transition mechanisms have been devised to allow IPv4 and IPv6 to interoperate, but IPv6 is not backwards-compatible with IPv4 and the two do not interoperate...
Generation Z, often shortened to Gen Z and informally known as Zoomers, is the demographic cohort succeeding Millennials and preceding Generation Alpha. Researchers and popular media use the mid-to-late 1990s as starting birth years and the early 2010s as ending birth years, with the generation typically being defined as people born from 1997 to 2012. Most members of Generation Z are the children of younger Baby Boomers, Generation  and older Millennials, and it is predicted that many will be the parents of members of younger Generation Alpha and Generation Beta. As children in the mid-late 2000s and 2010s, Generation Z was the first social generation to grow up with Web 2.0 and digital technology as an established commodity. From a young age, they have watched online videos and web series , and played online games. As adolescents and young adults in the 2010s and 2020s, members of the generation were dubbed digital natives, even if they were not necessarily digitally literate and might struggle in a digital or virtual workplace. Generation Z has been described as better behaved and less hedonistic than previous generations. They have fewer teenage pregnancies...
The sociology of the Internet, also known as the social psychology of the Internet, studies how sociological and social psychological theories and methods apply to the Internet as a source of information and communication. It examines the social implications of the technology, including new social networks, virtual communities, online interactions, and issues such as cybercrime. A related field, digital sociology, focuses on understanding digital media as a part of everyday life and its influence on social relationships, behavior, and identity. The Internet, as a major information breakthrough, is of interest to sociologists both as a research tool and as a subject of study. It enables online surveys, discussion platforms, and other data-collection methods. The sociology of the Internet focuses on online communities, virtual worlds, and organizational changes driven by digital media, as well as broader social transformations from industrial to information societies. Researchers examine online communities using statistical methods, such as network analysis, and qualitative approaches, including virtual ethnography. Social change is studied through demographic data or by interpreting...
The Internet in Turkey has been available to the public since 1993, although experimentation at Ege University started in 1987. The first available connections were dial-up. Cable Internet has been available since 1998 and ADSL since 2001. As of January 2024, Turkey had approximately 74.4 million internet users, representing an internet penetration rate of 86.5 percent of the population. According to the Turkish Statistical Institute , 88.8 percent of individuals aged 16 to 74 used the internet in 2024.  Internet service providers  Trk Telekom is the largest internet service provider in Turkey, offering connection speeds ranging from 16 Mbits to 1000 Mbits. Several alternative broadband companies operate over Trk Telekom's infrastructure while expanding their own networks. TurkNet offers fiber broadband at speeds up to 1000 Mbits and operates its own fiber infrastructure in Istanbul, Izmir, Bursa, Ankara, and Kocaeli. Superonline, operated by Turkcell, offers fiber broadband in 28 cities at speeds up to 1000 Mbits. Kablonet provides cable internet at speeds from 16 Mbits to 1000 Mbits in areas with cable infrastructure.  E-commerce  Credit card use is widespread...
An Internet aesthetic is a visual style, subculture, or thematic trend that originated and proliferated primarily through the Internet. Originally emerging out of the early online blogosphere among Millennials in the late 2000s, such aesthetics gained significant cultural traction throughout the 2010s and 2020s amongst Gen Z. Internet aesthetics encompass a wide range of niche communities and visual identities associated with contemporary youth subcultures defined by their digital circulation, curated imagery, and symbolic references to technology, nostalgia, and alternative culture, typically blending elements of fashion, music, visual art, and memes. Originally, these aesthetics were often associated with early blog-based platforms such as Tumblr. By the late 2010s and early 2020s, they evolved to encompass social media platforms like TikTok and Instagram, with the COVID-19 lockdowns being linked to the wider proliferation of these aesthetics online. Notable Internet aesthetics include Seapunk, Vaporwave, Cottagecore, Goblincore, Gorpcore, E-girls and E-boys, Dark academia, and 2020 Alt. Although internet aesthetics have been influential in wider fashion, visual art and music, they...
Internet commentator means a person who posts or publishes comments on the Internet. Internet commentator may refer to: Shoutcaster, an eSports commentator who streams comment on the Internet A critic paid to produce comment for an Internet company 50 Cent Party, Internet commentators hired by the government of China to post comments favorable towards government policies Russian web brigades, anonymous Internet political commentators and trolls linked to the Russian government  See also  Pundit, a person who offers his or her opinion or commentary on a particular subject area Internet Commentator Comment
Because the Internet is the second studio album by American rapper Donald Glover, under the stage name Childish Gambino. It was released on December 10, 2013, by Glassnote Records. The recording process began in 2012 and ended in October 2013. Recording primarily took place at a mansion owned by basketball player Chris Bosh, which Gambino rented. The album features guest appearances from Chance the Rapper, Problem, Jhen Aiko, and Azealia Banks, with production primarily handled by Gambino himself, Stefan Ponce, and Ludwig Gransson, among others. Because the Internet was supported by four singles: 3005, Crawl, Sweatpants, and Telegraph Ave. Gambino also released a short film titled Clapping for the Wrong Reasons and a 72-page screenplay to go along with the album in promotion of it. Because the Internet received generally positive reviews from critics. It also performed well commercially, debuting at number seven on the US Billboard 200 and number 12 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The album received a Grammy nomination for Best Rap Album. It was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America in February 2016. As of November 2016, the album has sold 992...
In telecommunications, broadband or high speed is the wide-bandwidth data transmission that uses signals at a wide spread of frequencies or several different simultaneous frequencies. It is used in fast Internet access where the transmission medium can be coaxial cable, optical fiber, wireless Internet , twisted pair cable, or satellite. Originally used to mean using a wide-spread frequency and for services that were analog at the lowest level, in the context of Internet access, broadband is now often used to mean any high-speed Internet access that is seemingly always on and is faster than dial-up access over traditional analog or ISDN PSTN services. The ideal telecommunication network has the following characteristics: broadband, multi-media, multi-point, multi-rate and economical implementation for a diversity of services . The Broadband Integrated Services Digital Network was planned to provide these characteristics. Asynchronous Transfer Mode was promoted as a target technology for meeting these requirements.  Overview  Different criteria for broad have been applied in different contexts and at different times. Its origin is in...
Isabella McFadden , known online as Internet Girl, is a Canadian social media personality and noted Depop seller of 1990s and 2000s clothing. She sells clothing found at thrift stores as well as new clothing of her own design. Many of her sales come in the form of style bundles, sets of clothing with matching accessories based upon a particular theme or style. She has become Depop's top seller in the United States, with her account reaching over 660,000 followers.  Early life  McFadden was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba on 2 August 1995. She attended Lawrence Park Collegiate Institute in Toronto, and studied communication and film at Concordia University in Montreal, before dropping out to move to Los Angeles to become a Depop seller.  References   External links  Internet Girl Website
Internet traffic is the flow of data within the entire Internet, or in certain network links of its constituent networks. Common traffic measurements are total volume, in units of multiples of the byte, or as transmission rates in bytes per certain time units. As the topology of the Internet is not hierarchical, no single point of measurement is possible for total Internet traffic. Traffic data may be obtained from the Tier 1 network providers' peering points for indications of volume and growth. However, such data excludes traffic that remains within a single service provider's network and traffic that crosses private peering points. As of December 2022 almost half of mobile Internet traffic is in India and China, while North America and Europe have about a quarter. However, mobile traffic remains a minority of total internet traffic.  Traffic sources  File sharing constitutes a fraction of Internet traffic. The prevalent technology for file sharing is the BitTorrent protocol, which is a peer-to-peer system mediated through indexing sites that provide resource directories. According to a Sandvine Research in 2013, Bit Torrent's share of Internet traffic decreased by...
Alexa Internet, Inc. was an American web traffic analysis company based in San Francisco, California. It was founded as an independent company by Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat in 1996. Alexa provided web traffic data, global rankings, and other information on over 30 million websites. It was acquired by Amazon in 1999 for 250 million in stock. Amazon discontinued the Alexa Internet service on May 1, 2022. Alexa estimated website traffic based on a sample of millions of Internet users using browser extensions as well as from sites that had chosen to install an Alexa script. As of 2020, its website was visited by over 400 million people every month.  Operations and history   1996-1999  Alexa Internet was founded in April 1996 by Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat. The company's name was chosen in homage to the Library of Alexandria in Ptolemaic Egypt, drawing a parallel between the largest repository of knowledge in the ancient world and the potential of the Internet to become a similar store of knowledge. Alexa initially offered a toolbar that gave Internet users suggestions on where to go next based on the traffic patterns of its user community. The company also offered context...
Internet Protocol television , also called TV over broadband, is the service delivery of television over Internet Protocol networks. Usually sold and run by a telecom provider, it consists of broadcast live television that is streamed over the Internet - in contrast to delivery through traditional terrestrial, satellite, and cable transmission formats - as well as video on demand services for watching or replaying content . IPTV broadcasts started gaining usage during the 2000s alongside the rising use of broadband-based internet connections. It is often provided bundled with internet access services by Internet service providers to subscribers and runs in a closed network. IPTV normally requires the use of a set-top box, which receives the encoded television content in the MPEG transport stream via IP multicast, and converts the packets to be watched on a TV set or other kind of display. It is distinct from over-the-top services, which are based on a direct one-to-one transmission mechanism. IPTV methods have been standardised by organisations such as ETSI. IPTV has found success in some regions: for example in Western Europe in 2015, pay...
Internet activism involves the use of electronic-communication technologies such as social media, e-mail, and podcasts for various forms of activism to enable faster and more effective communication by citizen movements, the delivery of particular information to large and specific audiences, as well as coordination. Internet technologies are used by activists for cause-related fundraising, community building, lobbying, and organizing. A digital-activism campaign is an organized public effort, making collective claims on a target authority, in which civic initiators or supporters use digital media. Research has started to address specifically how activistadvocacy groups in the U.S. and in Canada use social media to achieve digital-activism objectives.  Types  Within online activism Sandor Vegh distinguished three principal categories: activereactive, organizationmobilization, and awarenessadvocacy based. Activereactive refers to either being proactive in efforts to bring about change or reacting to issues after they happen. Organizationmobilization refers to gathering people and information together for online or offline activism. Awarenessadvocacy refers to sharing information...
An Internet suite is an Internet-related software suite. Internet suites usually include a web browser, e-mail client often with a news client and address book, download manager, HTML editor, and an IRC client. The diversity of Internet suite offerings was greatest in the mid-1990s, when proprietary web browser vendors felt it more profitable to sell entire retail suites of applications on compact disc. However, by the end of the first browser war, the Internet suite market dwindled to one or two competitors every few years. In reaction, alternative routes of profit or funding were sought. Opera Software, for example, moved away from offering the Opera Internet suite with embedded advertisements to a completely ad-free product. Mozilla began to separate the Mozilla Application Suite into separate projects: Firefox, Thunderbird, and Sunbird, but Internet suite development continued with Seamonkey, which is still active under the Mozilla umbrella. A further cause of depression in the diversity of Internet suites was the rise of Ajax-based web applications which replicated most functions of their desktop client equivalents while offering...
Sandro Bazadze Georgian:   born 29 July 1993 is a Georgian right-handed sabre fencer. He is the 2023 and 2022 individual European champion, and a three-time Olympian. Bazadze competed in the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games, 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games and 2024 Paris Olympic Games.  Medal record   World Championship   European Championship   Grand Prix   World Cup   References   External links  Sandro Bazadze at the International Fencing Federation Sandro Bazadze at the European Fencing Confederation Sandro Bazadze at Olympedia Sandro Bazadze at InterSportStats
Cassano Valcuvia is a comune in the Province of Varese in the Italian region Lombardy, located about 60 kilometres northwest of Milan and about 14 kilometres northwest of Varese. Cassano Valcuvia borders the following municipalities: Cuveglio, Duno, Ferrera di Varese, Grantola, Mesenzana, Rancio Valcuvia. The Italian tenor Aldo Bertocci lived in the town from 1974 until his death in 2004.  References 
Lacey is the 19th episode of the second season of the American ABC fantasydrama television series Once Upon a Time, and the show's 41st episode overall. It aired on April 21, 2013. In this episode, Mr. Gold goes on a date with Belle. In flashbacks, Rumpelstiltskin forces Belle to accompany him on his search to catch a thief. It was co-written by Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz, while being directed by Milan Cheylov.  Title card  Robin Hood shoots an arrow through the Enchanted Forest.  Plot   In the Characters' Past  In the Enchanted Forest, soon after Belle has gone to live with Rumpelstiltskin, she cries at night and he gives her a pillow - not for comfort, but to stifle her sobs. They are interrupted by the sound of an intruder. Rumple captures a thief who is trying to steal a magic wand, after being unharmed by the thief's magically unerring bow and arrow. Rumple locks him up and plans to torture him to death as an example to others. Belle fails to persuade him to let the thief go, so she releases him herself. He invites her to run away with him, but she stands by her pledge to serve Rumple. Rumple is enraged, and then shows Belle that the thief took the...
Joseph Saul Gruss Hebrew:   March 19, 1903 - July 3, 1993 was an Austro-Hungarian Empire-born American financier, businessman, and philanthropist who supported Jewish education.  Early life  Joseph Saul Gruss was born on March 19, 1903, to a Jewish family in Lemberg, Austro-Hungarian Empire as one of seven children. His father, Isaac, was a Talmudic scholar and banker his mother belonged to a family involved in the export grain business.  Career  In 1939, Gruss founded a travel agency in New York City. While he and his wife were in the United States, the Nazis invaded eastern Europe, and they were unable to return home. Their first-born child and many of their relatives were murdered in the Holocaust. In 1942, he founded the Wall Street firm Gruss  Company, which focused on mergers and arbitrage primarily in the oil and gas industries. Thereafter, he engaged in oil and gas exploration and development primarily in Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, and West Virginia.  Philanthropy  In the 1970s, Gruss focused on philanthropy particularly for Jewish education. He supported hundreds of Jewish schools and thousands of students and educators. He funded Yeshiva University's...
The Department of Political Science of Soochow University is one of the oldest departement of the university. This departement exists since 1954, when Soochow University was reestablished in Taiwan.  History  The Department of Political Science of Soochow University has over 50 years of history, being one of the four departments that existed during the reestablishment of the university in Taiwan in 1954. The Master program of the department was established in 1991 followed by the Doctoral program in 1998. In 2003, in a very rigorous review held by Soochow University, the Department of Political Science was evaluated excellent among the inspectors from the Evaluation and Review Committee of academic fields. The department is also awarded with financial support to help to fund many teaching and research activities and projects with unique features. The Department has also been funded by the Ministry of Education under the Teaching Excellence Projects. Since 2009, Shiow-Duan Hawang is the director of the department.  Programs and goals  The teaching program is characterized by a multidisciplinary approach of history of political thought, Comparative Government and Politics, international...
Anna Karima, ne Todora Velkova , was a Bulgarian writer, translator, editor, journalist, suffragist and women's rights activist. She was co-founder of the Bulgarian Women's Union, and served as its chairperson from 1901 to 1906.  Biography  Anna Karima was born in 1871 in Berdyansk, Ukraine. She was the daughter of wheat trader and revolutionary Todor Velkov . She completed her secondary education in Sofia. In 1888, she married the socialist politician Yanko Sakazov, with whom she later separated. From this marriage, she had three children. She debuted and became known as a writer in 1891. From a young age, Karima devoted herself to writing and dramaturgy. She wrote short stories, narratives, and novels. Her first story, titled Obiknovenna istoria in Bulgarian:  , Ordinary Story, was published in 1891 in the magazine Den. Between 1892 and 1895, she served as well as the editor-in-chief of the Bulgarian magazine Pochivka. Her plays, including Podhlyznase , Zaguben zhivot , and Nad zida in Bulgarian:  , Above...
Arrup edentulus is a species of soil centipede in the family Mecistocephalidae. This centipede is one of only two species of Arrup found in Central Asia. This centipede is also one of only five species in the family Mecistocephalidae found in Central Asia. This species features 41 pairs of legs.  Discovery  This species was first described in 1904 by the Austrian myriapodologist Carl Attems based on two small specimens. These specimens were found in 1901 in the town of Karakol in Issyk-Kul Region of Kyrgyzstan. A dissected male syntype is deposited in the Natural History Museum in Vienna.  Taxonomy  Attems originally described this species under the name Mecistocephalus edentulus. In 1928, Attems proposed Nodocephalus as a new genus with Nodocephalus edentulus as the type species. In 1964, the American myriapodologist Ralph E. Crabill Jr., of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., deemed Nodocephalus to be a junior synonym of Arrup and moved this species into the genus Arrup. Authorities now consider Arrup to be the valid name for Nodocephalus.  Description  This species features 41 leg-bearing segments and a pale yellow body with a darker head. The areolate area...
Del R. Bryant is an American businessperson. He was the head of the performing rights organization BMI from 2003 to 2014.  Biography  Del Bryant is the son of Felice and Boudleaux Bryant. Often present backstage at the Grand Ole Opry during his parents' engagements, he was introduced to the music industry early in life, often being present backstage at the Grand Ole Opry during his parents' engagements. Bryant's career path led him to BMI, then the leading music rights organization in the United States. His role at BMI varied, from engaging with new and established writers to reforming the royalty distribution system. In 1990, he was appointed senior vice president of BMI. He was named president and CEO in 2003. He oversaw the rejuvenation of BMI's Film  Television Department in Los Angeles and the establishment of new Latin music and RBhip-hop divisions in Miami and Atlanta, respectively, contributing to the development of an American-centric music catalog. In May 2013, Bryant announced his retirement as the CEO of BMI. He retired from the post in June 2014. Bryant has served in numerous industry leadership roles, including chairman of the board of FastTrack and a board member...
Ain Sokhna is an Egyptian city in the Suez Governorate. Sokhna may also refer to: Porto El Sokhna SC, Egyptian sports club  People with the given name  Sokhna Benga , Senegalese novelist and poet Sokhna Galle , French athlete Sokhna Magat Diop , Senegalese religious leader Sokhna Mame Diarra Bousso , Murid Saint Sokhna Sy , Senegalese basketball player  See also  Sokna, Norway
Schinderhannes is a 1927 play by the German writer Carl Zuckmayer. It was first performed on 13 October 1927 at the Lessing Theater in Berlin starring Eugen Klpfer and Kthe Dorsch. The play portrays the adventures of the 18th century German criminal Schinderhannes, often compared to Robin Hood, whose gang operated around the Hunsrck mountains in the Rhineland. Zuckmayer's drama is based on the life story of Schinderhannes, but without being completely historically accurate.  Film  In 1928 the play was adapted into a film The Prince of Rogues, directed by Curtis Bernhardt and starring Hans Stwe as Schinderhannes. 1958 Der Schinderhannes, directed by Helmut Kutner, starring Curd Jrgens as Schinderhannes.  References   Bibliography  Wagener, Hans. Carl Zuckmayer Criticism: Tracing Endangered Fame. Camden House, 1995. ISBN 978-1-57113-064-8.
The Nigeria Men's national volleyball team represents Nigeria in international men's volleyball competitions and friendly matches. Nigeria qualified for the quarter-final of the 2021 Men's African Nations Volleyball Championship in Rwanda by beating Ethiopia.  Team achievements  The Nigeria Team finished in 7th position at the 2021 African Mens Senior Volleyball Championship in Rwanda.  Team Players  Some of the players that were called up for the 2021 African Mens Senior Volleyball Championship in Rwanda includes Setters: Bruno Ibeh and Daniel Nathaniel Opposite Hitters: Morris Dikiyai, Izuchukwu Nwachukwu and Dauda Saje Middle Blockers: Philip Akande, Moses Gana and Army Ferdinand Outside Hitters: Samuel Ogwuche, Matthew Ejeh and Emmanuel Okeke Libero: Afun Idowu In 2022, some team players were invited for training in preparation for the national competition. Among them includes Patrick Anthony of Kano Pillars, Vincent Mathias of COAS Spikers, Elisha Anabi of CNS Spiekrs and Princewill Okoi of the Nigeria Customs Service.  References 
Puntjie is a small town in the Western Cape of South Africa. The town lies at the St. Sebastiaan Bay and on the eastern shore of the Duivenhoks Rivier's mouth. This holiday village is known for its hut style houses. It can be reached by a dirt road from Riversdale. However, this resort is privately owned. The town lies about 6 km south of Vermaaklikheid and about 15 km east of Witsand. In the 2011 South African census the population of the town and surrounding areas was 356 people living in 99 households.  Bibliography  Lantern, vintage 11, no. 1, July 1961.  References 
Pter Medgyessy is a retired Hungarian politician who served as Prime Minister of Hungary from 27 May 2002 to 29 September 2004. On 25 August 2004, he resigned over disputes with coalition partner Alliance of Free Democrats, but remained as acting prime minister for a 30-day period as required by the Constitution, and a few additional days until his successor Ferenc Gyurcsny was confirmed by the National Assembly.  Family and studies  Medgyessy was born into an old Transylvanian noble family in Budapest on 19 October 1942. An ancestor of the family, Mikls Medgyessy de Medgyes, worked as a penman for Prince Gabriel Bethlen in the 17th century. Medgyessy's father, Bla Medgyessy, was a recorder in the General Assembly of Cluj until the Second Vienna Award, when Hungary reassigned the territory of Northern Transylvania from the Kingdom of Romania. The family moved to Budapest, where Bla worked for the Ministry of Domestic Trade. Medgyessy's mother Ibolya Szolga was an interpreter. Medgyessy studied theoretical economics at the Corvinus University of Budapest then called Karl Marx University of Economic Sciences. He graduated in 1966, and returned to receive...
The Montenegrin women's national under-19 football team represents Montenegro at the UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship and the FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup.  History   UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship  The Montenegrin team has never qualified for the UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship.  See also  Montenegro women's national football team Montenegro women's national under-17 football team FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship  References 
J. R. Ralph Casimir was a Dominican poet, editor, journalist and bookseller. A pioneering Caribbean pan-Africanist, he was a founding member of Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association , organising its Dominica branch. Casimir also compiled Dominica's first poetry anthologies.  Biography  Born into a lower-middle-class black family in St. Joseph, Dominica, in 1898, Joseph Raphael Casimir was educated at the St. Joseph Government School, serving as a pupil teacher in 1915-1916, before he and his family moved to Roseau, where he became a solicitor's clerk to Cecil Rawle. Keenly interested in politics and the historic and contemporary experiences of African people, Casimir contacted Marcus Garvey after reading an article in the Negro World, and became a founding member as well as the organiser and General Secretary of the Dominica branch of Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association . Casimir's essay What Ails Dominica, published in the Negro World in 1920, resonated with readers in dealing with dissatisfaction to colonial rule in the Caribbean. He acted as the Dominican agent for Negro...
Koichiro Koga 30 August 1984 is a retired Japanese male volleyball player. He was a part of the Japan men's national volleyball team. On club level, he played for Toyoda Gosei Trefuerza and then Wolf Dogs Nagoya. His retirement was announced on March 7, 2021.  Personal life  Koga has younger brother, Taichiro Koga, who is a part of Japan men's national volleyball team as the same position.  References   External links  profile at FIVB.org
The 13th Rifle Division was a military formation of the Red Army from 1922 to 1945. serving in World War II. It was disbanded after being defeated in 1941 and reformed from a Leningrad people's militia division later that year. The division was formed 13.07.1922 in Dagestan on the basis of the 1st Dagestan Rifle Brigade. It took the honorific 'Dagestan.' It took part in the Soviet invasion of eastern Poland in 1939. During the German-Soviet War it was listed as serving from June 22, 1941, to September 19, 1941. On 22.06.1941, it was stationed at the border area Zambrw - Snyadovo, as part of the 5th Rifle Corps, 10th Army, itself part of the Western Front. June 22, 1941, was the first fight of the division, and on June 23 it retreated toward Biaystok and on 24 June took up the defence of the river Narev. June 26, 1941, division received an order to retreat to Supraselskuyu Forest, where the division was falling apart in unorganized groups. During late June - early July 1941 small groups from the division attempted to break through to the east, but were dispersed. The division was formally disbanded on Sept. 19, 1941. It was reformed later that year...
Dezperadoz is a German Western metal band and is the side project of Onkel Tom guitarist Alex Kraft. Formed in 2000, the band plays heavy metal music that is heavily influenced by the soundtracks of the 1960s and 1970s Spaghetti Western movies. Dezperadoz has released four albums, two on the German heavy metal label AFM. They have also had guest appearances by many notable heavy metal musicians including Michael Weikath, Tobias Sammet, Joacim Cans, and Doro Pesch.  History  Alex Kraft started Dezperadoz originally as a project under the name Desperados with Tom Angelripper on vocals. The intention was to transfer the rough atmosphere of old Italo-Western movies into today's world of rock and metal. After the release of Dawn of Dying , Dezperadoz saw a longer work break and some lineup changes. Alex Kraft decided to take over the lead vocal part. In 2006, Dezperadoz release the second record, The Legend and the Truth, produced by Dennis Ward and published by AFM Records. The record turns out to be a concept album which brings to life the Western legend Wyatt Earp, musically. As...
Conversion to Judaism Hebrew: , romanized: giyur or Hebrew: , romanized: gerut is the process by which non-Jews adopt the Jewish religion and become members of the Jewish ethnoreligious community. It thus resembles both conversion to other religions and naturalization. The procedure and requirements for conversion depend on the sponsoring denomination. Furthermore, a conversion done in accordance with one Jewish denomination is not a guarantee of recognition by another denomination. Normally, though not always, the conversions performed by more stringent denominations are recognized by less stringent ones, but not the other way around. A formal conversion is also sometimes undertaken by individuals who are raised Jewish or have Jewish ancestry but who may not be considered Jewish according to stringent interpretations of traditional Jewish law. There are some groups that have adopted Jewish customs and practices. As an example, in Russia the Subbotniks have adopted most aspects of Judaism without formal conversion to Judaism. However, if Subbotniks, or anyone without a formal conversion, wish to marry into a traditional Jewish community or immigrate to Israel under...
This timeline of chemistry lists important works, discoveries, ideas, inventions, and experiments that significantly changed humanity's understanding of the modern science known as chemistry, defined as the scientific study of the composition of matter and of its interactions. Known as the central science, the study of chemistry is strongly influenced by, and exerts a strong influence on, many other scientific and technological fields. Many historical developments that are considered to have had a significant impact upon our modern understanding of chemistry are also considered to have been key discoveries in such fields as physics, biology, astronomy, geology, and materials science.  Pre-17th century  Prior to the acceptance of the scientific method and its application to the field of chemistry, it is somewhat controversial to consider many of the people listed below as chemists in the modern sense of the word. However, the ideas of certain great thinkers, either for their prescience, or for their wide and long-term acceptance, bear listing here.  c. 450 BC  Empedocles asserts that all things are composed of four primal roots later to be renamed stoicheia or elements...
Hydrogen is a chemical element it has the symbol H and atomic number 1. It is the lightest and most abundant chemical element in the universe, constituting about 75 of all normal matter. Under standard conditions, hydrogen is a gas of diatomic molecules with the formula H2, called dihydrogen, or sometimes hydrogen gas, molecular hydrogen, or simply hydrogen. Dihydrogen is colorless, odorless, non-toxic, and highly combustible. Stars, including the Sun, mainly consist of hydrogen in a plasma state, while on Earth, hydrogen is found as the gas H2 and in molecules, such as in water and organic compounds. The most common isotope of hydrogen, 1H, consists of one proton, one electron, and no neutrons. Hydrogen gas was first produced artificially in the 17th century by the reaction of acids with metals. Henry Cavendish, in 1766-1781, identified hydrogen gas as a distinct substance and discovered its property of producing water when burned: this is the origin of hydrogen's name, which means 'water-former' from Ancient Greek: , romanized: hdr, lit. 'water', and , genn, 'I bring forth'. Understanding the colors of light absorbed and emitted by hydrogen was a crucial...
Curium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Cm and atomic number 96. This transuranic actinide element was named after eminent scientists Marie and Pierre Curie, both known for their research on radioactivity. Curium was first intentionally made by the team of Glenn T. Seaborg, Ralph A. James, and Albert Ghiorso in 1944, using the cyclotron at Berkeley. They bombarded the newly discovered element plutonium with alpha particles. This was then sent to the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago where a tiny sample of curium was eventually separated and identified. The discovery was kept secret until after the end of World War II. The news was released to the public in November 1947. Most curium is produced by bombarding uranium or plutonium with neutrons in nuclear reactors - one tonne of spent nuclear fuel contains 20 grams of curium. Curium is a hard, dense, silvery metal with a high melting and boiling point for an actinide. It is paramagnetic at ambient conditions, but becomes antiferromagnetic upon cooling, and other magnetic transitions are also seen in many curium compounds. In compounds, curium usually has valence 3 and sometimes...
Osmium 'smell' is a chemical element it has symbol Os and atomic number 76. It is a hard, brittle, bluish-white transition metal in the platinum group. It was discovered in 1803 by Smithson Tennant, who named it for the characteristic smell of its volatile oxide. Osmium has the highest density of any stable element and one of the lowest abundances in the Earth's crust, where it is mainly found alongside other platinum-group metals and in ores of copper and nickel. While its metallic applications are limited, manufacturers use alloys of osmium with platinum, iridium, and other platinum-group metals for fountain pen nib tipping, electrical contacts, and other applications that require extreme durability and hardness. Its chemical applications are more prominent, with major applications in electron microscopy and laboratory-scale production of vicinal diols.  Characteristics   Physical properties  Osmium is a hard, brittle, blue-gray metal, and the densest stable element-about twice as dense as lead. The density of osmium is slightly greater than that of iridium the two are so similar that each was at...
In chemistry, an octatomic element is an element that, at some standard temperature and pressure, is in a configuration of eight atoms bound together . The canonical example is sulfur, S8, but red selenium is also an octatomic element stable at room temperature. Octaoxygen is also known, but it is extremely unstable.  See also  Diatomic element  References 
The Curie family is a French family from which hailed a number of distinguished scientists. Polish-born Marie Skodowska-Curie from the Skodowski family, her French husband Pierre Curie, their daughter, Irne Joliot-Curie, and son-in-law, Frdric Joliot-Curie, are its most prominent members. Five members of the family in total were awarded a Nobel Prize, with Marie winning twice. Marie and Pierre shared a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1903 and Marie was awarded a second one in chemistry in 1911, making her the first person in history to win a Nobel Prize in two scientific disciplines. To date, only Linus Pauling has followed her in winning prizes in multiple categories, in chemistry and peace. Irne and Frdric Joliot-Curie won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1935. Henry Richardson Labouisse, Jr., the spouse of Irne's younger sister, ve Curie, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1965. The chemical element curium is named after Marie and Pierre. While Pierre Curie died at age 46 from an accident, Marie, Irne and Frdric died from diseases likely caused by their exposure to radiation during their scientific experiments. The Curie were close friends or associated to of...
In chemistry, catenation is the bonding of atoms of the same element into a series, called a chain. A chain or a ring may be open if its ends are not bonded to each other , or closed if they are bonded in a ring . The words to catenate and catenation reflect the Latin root catena, chain.  Carbon  Catenation occurs most readily with carbon, which forms covalent bonds with other carbon atoms to form long chains and structures. This is the reason for the presence of the vast number of organic compounds in nature. Carbon is most well known for its properties of catenation, with organic chemistry essentially being the study of catenated carbon structures . Carbon chains in biochemistry combine any of various other elements, such as hydrogen, oxygen, and biometals, onto the backbone of carbon. However, carbon is by no means the only element capable of forming such catenae, and several other main-group elements are capable of forming an expansive range of catenae, including hydrogen, boron, silicon, phosphorus, sulfur and halogens. The ability of an element to catenate is primarily based on the bond energy of the element...
Molybdenum is a chemical element it has symbol Mo and atomic number 42. The name is derived from Ancient Greek  mlybdos, meaning lead, since its ores were sometimes confused with those of lead. Molybdenum minerals have been known throughout history, but the element was discovered in the sense of differentiating it as a new entity from the mineral salts of other metals in 1778 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele. The metal was first isolated in 1781 by Peter Jacob Hjelm. Molybdenum does not occur naturally as a free metal on Earth in its minerals, it is found only in oxidized states. The free element, a silvery metal with a grey cast, has the sixth-highest melting point of any element. It readily forms hard, stable carbides in alloys, and for this reason most of the world production of the element is used in steel alloys, including high-strength alloys and superalloys. Most molybdenum compounds have low solubility in water. Heating molybdenum-bearing minerals under oxygen and water affords molybdate ion MoO24, which forms quite soluble salts. Industrially, molybdenum compounds about 14 of world production of the element are used as pigments and catalysts. Molybdenum...
Sodium is a chemical element it has symbol Na and atomic number 11. It is a soft, silvery-white, highly reactive metal. Sodium is an alkali metal, being in group 1 of the periodic table. Its only stable isotope is 23Na. The free metal does not occur in nature and must be prepared from compounds. Sodium is the sixth-most abundant element in the Earth's crust and exists in numerous minerals such as feldspars, sodalite, and halite . Many salts of sodium are highly water-soluble: sodium ions have been leached by the action of water from the Earth's minerals over eons, and thus sodium and chlorine are the most common dissolved elements by weight in the oceans. Sodium was first isolated by Humphry Davy in 1807 by the electrolysis of sodium hydroxide. Among many other useful sodium compounds, sodium hydroxide is used in soap manufacture, and sodium chloride is a de-icing agent and a nutrient for animals including humans. Sodium is an essential element for all animals and some plants. Sodium ions are the major cation in the extracellular fluid and as such are the major contributor to the ECF osmotic pressure. Animal cells actively pump...
A period 4 element is one of the chemical elements in the fourth row of the periodic table of the chemical elements. The periodic table is laid out in rows to illustrate recurring trends in the chemical behaviour of the elements as their atomic number increases: a new row is begun when chemical behaviour begins to repeat, meaning that elements with similar behaviour fall into the same vertical columns. The fourth period contains 18 elements beginning with potassium and ending with krypton - one element for each of the eighteen groups. It sees the first appearance of d-block in the table.  Properties  All 4th-period elements are stable, and many are extremely common in the Earth's crust andor core it is the last period with no unstable elements. Many transition metals in the period are very strong, and therefore common in industry, especially iron. Some are toxic, with all known vanadium compounds toxic, arsenic one of the most well-known poisons, and bromine a toxic liquid. Conversely, many elements are essential to human survival, such as calcium, the main component in bones.  Atomic structure  Progressing towards...
Inorganic chemistry deals with synthesis and behavior of inorganic and organometallic compounds. This field covers chemical compounds that are not carbon-based, which are the subjects of organic chemistry. The distinction between the two disciplines is far from absolute, as there is much overlap in the subdiscipline of organometallic chemistry. It has applications in every aspect of the chemical industry, including catalysis, materials science, pigments, surfactants, coatings, medications, fuels, and agriculture.  Occurrence  Many inorganic compounds are found in nature as minerals. Soil may contain iron sulfide as pyrite or calcium sulfate as gypsum. Inorganic compounds are also found multitasking as biomolecules: as electrolytes , in energy storage or in construction .  Bonding  Inorganic compounds exhibit a range of bonding properties. Some are ionic compounds, consisting of very simple cations and anions joined by ionic bonding. Examples of salts are magnesium chloride MgCl2, which consists of magnesium cations Mg2 and chloride anions Cl or sodium hydroxide NaOH, which consists of sodium...
This is a list of women chemists. It should include those who have been important to the development or practice of chemistry. Their research or application has made significant contributions in the area of basic or applied chemistry.  Nobel laureates  Source: 1911 - Marie Sklodowska-Curie - discovery of radium  polonium 1935 - Irne Joliot-Curie - artificial radioactivity 1964 - Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin - protein crystallography 2009 - Ada E. Yonath - structure  function of the ribosome 2018 - Frances Arnold - directed evolution to engineer enzymes 2020 - Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer Doudna - for CRISPR gene editing 2022 - Carolyn R. Bertozzi - for bioorthogonal chemistry Eight women have won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry , awarded annually since 1901 by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Marie Curie was the first woman to receive the prize in 1911, which was her second Nobel Prize she also won the prize in physics in 1903, along with Pierre Curie and Henri Becquerel - making her the only woman to be award two Nobel prizes. Her prize in chemistry was for her discovery of the elements radium and polonium, by the isolation of radium and the study of...
Phosphorus is a chemical element it has symbol P and atomic number 15. All elemental forms of phosphorus are highly reactive and are therefore never found in nature. Elemental phosphorus can be prepared artificially, the two most common allotropes being white phosphorus and red phosphorus. With 31P as its only stable isotope, phosphorus has an occurrence in Earth's crust of about 0.1, generally as phosphate rock. A member of the pnictogen family, phosphorus readily forms a wide variety of organic and inorganic compounds, with as its main oxidation states 5, 3 and 3. The isolation of white phosphorus in 1669 by Hennig Brand marked the scientific community's first discovery of an element since antiquity. The name phosphorus is a reference to Phosphorus, god of the morning star in Greek mythology, inspired by the faint glow of white phosphorus when exposed to oxygen. This property is also at the origin of the term phosphorescence, meaning glow after illumination, although white phosphorus itself does not exhibit phosphorescence, but chemiluminescence caused by its oxidation. Its high toxicity makes exposure to white phosphorus very dangerous, while its flammability and pyrophoricity...
Carbon compounds are chemical substances containing carbon. More compounds of carbon exist than any other chemical element except for hydrogen. Organic carbon compounds are far more numerous than inorganic carbon compounds. In general bonds of carbon with other elements are covalent bonds. Carbon is tetravalent but carbon free radicals and carbenes occur as short-lived intermediates. Ions of carbon are carbocations and carbanions are also short-lived. An important carbon property is catenation as the ability to form long carbon chains and rings.  Allotropes of carbon  The known inorganic chemistry of the allotropes of carbon blossomed with the discovery of buckminsterfullerene in 1985, as additional fullerenes and their various derivatives were discovered. One such class of derivatives is inclusion compounds, in which an ion is enclosed by the all-carbon shell of the fullerene. This inclusion is denoted by the symbol in endohedral fullerenes. For example, an ion consisting of a lithium ion trapped within buckminsterfullerene would be denoted LiC60. As with any other ionic compound, this complex ion could in principle pair with a counterion...
Isotopes are distinct nuclear species of the same chemical element. They have the same atomic number and position in the periodic table and hence belong to the same chemical element, but different nucleon numbers due to different numbers of neutrons in their nuclei. While all isotopes of a given element have virtually the same chemical properties, they have different atomic masses and physical properties. The term isotope comes from the Greek roots isos and topos , meaning the same place: different isotopes of an element occupy the same place on the periodic table. It was coined by Scottish doctor and writer Margaret Todd in a 1913 suggestion to the British chemist Frederick Soddy, who popularized the term. The number of protons within the atom's nucleus is called its atomic number and is equal to the number of electrons in the neutral atom. Each atomic number identifies a specific element, but not the isotope an atom of a given element may have a wide range in its number of neutrons. The number of nucleons in the nucleus is the atom's mass number...
Nitrogen is a chemical element it has symbol N and atomic number 7. Nitrogen is a nonmetal and the lightest member of group 15 of the periodic table, often called the pnictogens. It is a common element in the universe, estimated at seventh in total abundance in the Milky Way and the Solar System. At standard temperature and pressure, two atoms of the element bond to form N2, a colourless and odourless diatomic gas. N2 forms about 78 of Earth's atmosphere, making it the most abundant chemical species in air. Because of the volatility of nitrogen compounds, nitrogen is relatively rare in the solid parts of the Earth. It was first discovered and isolated by Scottish physician Daniel Rutherford in 1772 and independently by Carl Wilhelm Scheele and Henry Cavendish at about the same time. The name nitrogne was suggested by French chemist Jean-Antoine-Claude Chaptal in 1790 when it was found that nitrogen was present in nitric acid and nitrates. Antoine Lavoisier suggested instead the name azote, from the Ancient Greek:  no life, as it is an asphyxiant gas this name is used in a number of languages, and appears in the English names of some nitrogen compounds such as hydrazine...
In chemistry, subhalide usually refers to inorganic compounds that have a low ratio of halide to metal, made possible by metal-metal bonding , sometimes extensive. Many compounds meet this definition.  Examples  The normal halide of boron is BF3. Boron forms many subhalides: several B24, including B2F4 also BF. Aluminium forms a variety of subhalides. For gallium, adducts of Ga2Cl4 are known. Phosphorus subhalides include P2I4, P4Cl2, and P7Cl3 . For bismuth, the compound originally described as bismuth monochloride was later shown to consist of 5 clusters and chloride anions. There are many tellurium subhalides, including Te3Cl2, Te2 , and two forms of TeI.  References 
A molecule is a group of two or more atoms that are held together by attractive forces known as chemical bonds depending on context, the term may or may not include ions that satisfy this criterion. In quantum physics, organic chemistry, and biochemistry, the distinction from ions is dropped and molecule is often used when referring to polyatomic ions. A molecule may be homonuclear, that is, it consists of atoms of one chemical element, e.g. two atoms in the oxygen molecule  or it may be heteronuclear, a chemical compound composed of more than one element, e.g. water two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom H2O. In the kinetic theory of gases, the term molecule is often used for any gaseous particle regardless of its composition. This relaxes the requirement that a molecule contains two or more atoms, since the noble gases are individual atoms. Atoms and complexes connected by non-covalent interactions, such as hydrogen bonds or ionic bonds, are typically not considered single molecules. Concepts similar to molecules have been discussed since ancient times, but modern investigation into the nature of molecules and their bonds began in the 17th century. Refined over time by scientists...
The names for the chemical elements 102 to 109 were the subject of a major controversy starting in the 1960s and settled by IUPAC in 1997. It was described by some nuclear chemists as the Transfermium Wars because it concerned the elements following fermium on the periodic table. This controversy arose from disputes between American scientists and Soviet scientists as to which had first isolated these elements.  Background  By convention, naming rights for newly discovered chemical elements go to their discoverers. For elements 104, 105, and 106, there was a controversy between Soviet researchers at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research and American researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory regarding which group had discovered them first. Both parties suggested their own names for elements 104 and 105, not recognizing the other's name. The American name of seaborgium for element 106 was also objectionable to some, because it referred to American chemist Glenn T. Seaborg who was still alive at the time this name was proposed. Einsteinium and fermium had also been proposed as names of new elements while Albert Einstein and Enrico...
Magnesium is a chemical element it has symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a shiny gray metal having a low density, low melting point, and high chemical reactivity. Like the other alkaline earth metals , it occurs naturally only in combination with other elements and almost always has an oxidation state of 2. It reacts readily with air to form a thin passivation coating of magnesium oxide that inhibits further corrosion of the metal. The free metal burns with a brilliant-white light. The metal is obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine. It is less dense than aluminium and is used primarily as a component in strong and lightweight alloys that contain aluminium. In the cosmos, magnesium is produced in large, aging stars by the sequential addition of three helium nuclei to a carbon nucleus. When such stars explode as supernovas, much of the magnesium is expelled into the interstellar medium, where it may recycle into new star systems. Magnesium is the eighth most abundant element in Earth's crust and the fourth most common element in the Earth , making up 13 of the planet's mass and a large...
Beryllium is a chemical element it has symbol Be and atomic number 4. It is a steel-gray, hard, strong, lightweight and brittle alkaline earth metal. It is a divalent element that occurs naturally only in combination with other elements to form minerals. Gemstones high in beryllium include beryl and chrysoberyl. It is a relatively rare element in the universe, usually occurring as a product of the spallation of larger atomic nuclei that have collided with cosmic rays. Within the cores of stars, beryllium is depleted as it is fused into heavier elements. Beryllium constitutes about 0.0004 percent by mass of Earth's crust. The world's annual beryllium production of 220 tons is usually manufactured by extraction from the mineral beryl, a difficult process because beryllium bonds strongly to oxygen. In structural applications, the combination of high flexural rigidity, thermal stability, thermal conductivity and low density make beryllium a desirable aerospace material for aircraft components, missiles, spacecraft, and satellites. Because of its low density and atomic mass, beryllium is relatively transparent to -rays and other...
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry is awarded annually by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences to scientists in the various fields of chemistry. It is one of the five Nobel Prizes established by the 1895 will of Alfred Nobel, who died in 1896. These prizes are awarded for outstanding contributions in chemistry, physics, literature, peace, and physiology or medicine. As dictated by Nobel's will, the award is administered by the Nobel Foundation and awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. The first Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded in 1901 to Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, of the Netherlands. Each recipient receives a medal, a diploma and a monetary award prize that has varied throughout the years. In 1901, van 't Hoff received 150,782 SEK, which is equal to 7,731,004 SEK in December 2007. The award is presented in Stockholm at an annual ceremony on 10 December, the anniversary of Nobel's death. At least 25 laureates have received the Nobel Prize for contributions in the field of organic chemistry, more than any other field of chemistry. Two Nobel Prize laureates in Chemistry, Germans Richard Kuhn and Adolf Butenandt , were not allowed...
Rubidium is a chemical element it has symbol Rb and atomic number 37. It is a very soft, whitish-grey solid in the alkali metal group, similar to potassium and caesium. Rubidium is the first alkali metal in the group to have a density higher than water. On Earth, natural rubidium comprises two isotopes: 72 is a stable isotope, 85Rb, and 28 is the slightly radioactive 87Rb, with a half-life of 48.8 billion years - more than three times as long as the estimated age of the universe. German chemists Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchhoff discovered rubidium in 1861 by the newly developed technique, flame spectroscopy. The name comes from the Latin word rubidus, meaning deep red, the color of its emission spectrum. Rubidium's compounds have various chemical and electronic applications. Rubidium metal is easily vaporized and has a convenient spectral absorption range, making it a frequent target for laser manipulation of atoms. Rubidium is not a known nutrient for any living organisms. However, rubidium ions have similar properties and the same charge as potassium ions, and are actively taken up and treated by animal cells in similar ways.  Characteristics   Physical properties  Rubidium...
Bromine is a chemical element its symbol is Br and its atomic number is 35. It is a volatile red-brown liquid at room temperature that evaporates readily to form a similarly coloured vapour. Its properties are intermediate between those of chlorine and iodine. Isolated independently by two chemists, Carl Jacob Lwig and Antoine Jrme Balard , its name was derived from Ancient Greek  'stench', referring to its sharp and pungent smell. Elemental bromine is very reactive and thus does not occur as a free element in nature. Instead, it can be isolated from colourless soluble crystalline mineral halide salts analogous to table salt, a property it shares with the other halogens. While it is rather rare in the Earth's crust, the high solubility of the bromide ion has caused its accumulation in the oceans. Commercially the element is easily extracted from brine evaporation ponds, mostly in the United States and Israel. The mass of bromine in the oceans is about one three-hundredth that of chlorine. At standard conditions for temperature and pressure it is a liquid the only other element that is liquid under these conditions is mercury. At high temperatures...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 474 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
DVC is a free and open-source, platform-agnostic version system for data, machine learning models, and experiments. It is designed to make ML models shareable, experiments reproducible, and to track versions of models, data, and pipelines. DVC works on top of Git repositories and cloud storage. The first version of DVC 0.6 was launched in May 2017. In May 2020, DVC 1.0 was publicly released by Iterative.ai. In November 2025, lakeFS announced its acquisition of DVC.  Overview  DVC is designed to incorporate the best practices of software development into Machine Learning workflows. It does this by extending the traditional software tool Git by cloud storages for datasets and Machine Learning models. Specifically, DVC makes Machine Learning operations: Codified: it codifies datasets and models by storing pointers to the data files in cloud storages. Reproducible: it allows users to reproduce experiments, and rebuild datasets from raw data. These features also allow to automate the construction of datasets, the training, evaluation, and deployment of ML models.  DVC and Git  DVC stores large files and datasets in separate storage, outside of Git. This storage can be...
Version may refer to:  Computing  Software version, text that identifies a version of a software entity VERSION , a configuration directive in FreeDOS Version control, a component of software configuration management  Music  Cover version Dub version Remix Version , a 2007 album by Mark Ronson Versions , 2007 Versions , 2006 Versions , 2005 Versions , 1982 Versions , 2013  Other  Bible version debate Version External cephalic version Versions of the Bible Version , a modification of a stochastic process  See also  All pages with titles containing version
Multiversion concurrency control is a non-locking concurrency control method commonly used by database management systems to provide concurrent access to the database and in programming languages to implement transactional memory.  Description  Without concurrency control, if someone is reading from a database at the same time as someone else is writing to it, it is possible that the reader will see a half-written or inconsistent piece of data. For instance, when making a wire transfer between two bank accounts if a reader reads the balance at the bank when the money has been withdrawn from the original account and before it was deposited in the destination account, it would seem that money has disappeared from the bank. Isolation is the property that provides guarantees in the concurrent accesses to data. Isolation is implemented by means of a concurrency control protocol. The simplest way is to make all readers wait until the writer is done, which is known as a read-write lock. Locks are known to create contention especially between long read transactions and update transactions. MVCC aims at solving the problem by keeping multiple copies of each data item. In this...
Concurrent Versions System is a version control system originally developed by Dick Grune in July 1986. It builds on top of an older version control system called Revision Control System , adding support for repository-level change tracking, and a client-server model. CVS servers normally run on Unix systems, while clients can be on any operating system.  Design  CVS operates as a front end to Revision Control System , an older version control system that manages individual files but not whole projects. It expands upon RCS by adding support for repository-level change tracking, and a client-server model. Files are tracked using the same history format as in RCS, with a hidden directory containing a corresponding history file for each file in the repository. CVS uses delta compression for efficient storage of different versions of the same file. This works well with large text files with few changes from one version to the next. This is usually the case for source code files. On the other hand, when CVS is told to store a file as binary, it will keep each individual version on the server. This is typically used for non-text files such...
Software versioning is the process of assigning unique version names or unique version numbers to unique states of computer software. A commonly adopted scheme for version numbers is known as semantic versioning , which comprises a three-part version number , an optional prerelease tag , and an optional build meta tag. A fourth number may also be used to denote the software build, as was the case for Adobe Flash. Some companies also rely on the build date, in a system known as calendar versioning, and letters and other characters, such as Lotus 1-2-3 Release 1a. Most free and open-source software packages, including MediaWiki, treat versions as a series of individual numbers, separated by periods, with a progression such as 1.8.1, 1.9.0. On the other hand, some software packages identify releases by decimal numbers: 1.8, 1.81, 1.82. Developers may choose to jump multiple minor versions at a time to indicate that significant features have been added or for marketing purposes. Version numbers are often used to identify copies of a software product and compare them against another copy in a collaborative version control system. Within software...
Software development is the process of designing, creating, testing, and maintaining software applications to meet specific user needs or business objectives. The process is more encompassing than programming, writing code, because it includes conceiving the goal, evaluating feasibility, analyzing requirements, design, testing and release. The process is part of software engineering which also includes organizational management, project management, configuration management and other aspects. Software development involves many skills and job specializations, including programming, testing, documentation, graphic design, user support, marketing, and fundraising. Common types of tools are compilers, integrated development environments , and version control. The details of the process used for a development effort vary. The process may be confined to a formal, documented standard, or it can be customized and emergent for the development effort. The process may be sequential, in which each major phase is completed before the next begins, but an iterative approach-where small aspects are separately designed, implemented, and tested-can reduce risk...
Epic Games, Inc. is an American video game and software developer and publisher based in Cary, North Carolina. The company was founded by Tim Sweeney as Potomac Computer Systems in 1991, originally located in his parents' house in Potomac, Maryland. Following its first commercial video game release, ZZT , the company became Epic MegaGames, Inc. in early 1992 and brought on Mark Rein, who has been its vice president since. After moving the headquarters to Cary in 1999, the studio changed its name to Epic Games. Epic Games developed Unreal Engine, a commercially available game engine which also powers its internally developed video games like Fortnite and the Unreal, Gears of War, and Infinity Blade series. In 2014, Unreal Engine was named the most successful videogame engine by Guinness World Records. Epic Games owns the game developers Psyonix, Mediatonic, and Harmonix, and operates studios in multiple locations around the world. While Sweeney remains the controlling shareholder, Tencent acquired a 48.4 outstanding stake, equating to 40 of total Epic, in the company in 2012, as part of an agreement aimed at moving Epic towards a games as a service model. Following the release...
Windows 10 is a major release of the Windows NT operating system developed by Microsoft. Microsoft described Windows 10 as an operating system as a service that would receive ongoing updates to its features and functionality, augmented with the ability for enterprise environments to receive non-critical updates at a slower pace or use long-term support milestones that will only receive critical updates, such as security patches, over their five-year lifespan of mainstream support. It was released on July 29, 2015.  Overview   Releases  Mainstream builds of Windows 10 are labeled YYMM, with YY representing the two-digit year and MM representing the month of planned release for example, version 1507 refers to builds which initially released in July 2015. Starting with version 20H2, Windows 10 release nomenclature changed from the year and month pattern to a year and half-year pattern .  Version 1507  The original version of Windows 10 also retroactively named version 1507 and codenamed Threshold 1 was released in July 2015. It carries the build number 10.0.10240 while Microsoft has stated that there was no designated release to manufacturing...
The Librarian is a version control system and source code management software product originally developed by Applied Data Research for IBM mainframe computers. It was designed to supplant physical punched card decks as a way of maintaining programs, but kept a card model in terms of its interface. During the 1970s and 1980s it was in use at thousands of IBM mainframe installations and was one of the best-selling software products in the computer industry. After Applied Data Research was acquired by Computer Associates in 1988, the product became known as CA-Librarian. After that company was acquired by Broadcom in 2018, the product became known simply as Librarian.  History  Most computer source programs in the 1960s were kept on punched cards, which was problematic due to the amount of physical space they took, the constant chance of card decks being dropped or otherwise damaged, and problems with keeping a history of changes to the program. Even into the mid-to-late 1970s, when other forms of computer input emerged, the punched card deck was still the most important of these, and this was also true for the source code for computer programs themselves. During its early years...
Continuous integration is the practice of integrating source code changes frequently and ensuring that the integrated codebase is in a workable state. Typically, developers merge changes to an integration branch, and an automated system builds and tests the software system. Often, the automated process runs on each commit or runs on a schedule such as once a day. Grady Booch first proposed the term CI in 1991, although he did not advocate integrating multiple times a day, but later, CI came to include that aspect.  History  The earliest known work on continuous integration was the Infuse environment developed by G. E. Kaiser, D. E. Perry, and W. M. Schell. In 1994, Grady Booch used the phrase continuous integration in Object-Oriented Analysis and Design with Applications to explain how, when developing using micro processes, internal releases represent a sort of continuous integration of the system, and exist to force closure of the micro process. In 1997, Kent Beck and Ron Jeffries invented extreme programming while on the Chrysler Comprehensive Compensation System project, including continuous integration. Beck published about continuous integration...
Vault is a commercial, proprietary version control system by SourceGear LLC which markets its product as a replacement for Microsoft's Visual Source Safe. Vault uses Microsoft SQL Server as a back end database and provides atomic commits to the version control system. The tool is built on top of Microsoft .NET. Fortress, originally an application lifecycle management product marketed separately for use with Vault, was later merged into Vault releases. Third-party products have been designed to be integrated with Vault such as OnTime, FogBugz, TeamCity, and SmartBear CodeCollaborator.  See also  Revision control List of revision control software  References   External links  Vault, SourceGear
Jenkins is an open source automation server. It helps automate the parts of software development related to building, testing, and deploying, facilitating continuous integration, and continuous delivery. It is a server-based system that runs in servlet containers such as Apache Tomcat, or by default as a stand-alone web-application in co-bundled Eclipse Jetty. It supports version control tools, including AccuRev, CVS, Subversion, Git, Mercurial, Perforce, ClearCase, and RTC, and can execute Apache Ant, Apache Maven, and sbt based projects as well as arbitrary shell scripts and Windows batch commands.  History  The Jenkins project was originally named Hudson, and was renamed in 2011 after a dispute with Oracle, which had forked the project and claimed rights to the project name. The Oracle fork, Hudson, continued to be developed for a time before being donated to the Eclipse Foundation. Oracle's Hudson is no longer maintained and was announced as obsolete in February 2017. Around 2007 Hudson became known as a better alternative to Cruise Control and other open-source build-servers. At the JavaOne conference in May 2008 the software won the Duke's Choice Award in the Developer Solutions...
DevOps is the integration and automation of software development and information technology operations. DevOps encompasses the tasks necessary for software development and can lead to both shortening development time and improving the development life cycle. According to American software architect Neal Ford, DevOps, particularly through continuous delivery, employs the bring the pain forward principle by tackling challenging tasks early, fostering automation, and enabling swift issue detection. Although debated, DevOps is generally characterized by three key principles: shared ownership, workflow automation, and rapid feedback. From an academic perspective, Len Bass, Ingo Weber, and Liming Zhu-three computer science researchers from the CSIRO and the Software Engineering Institute-defined DevOps as a set of practices intended to reduce the time between committing a change to a system and the change being placed into normal production, while ensuring high quality. However, the term is used in multiple contexts. At its most successful, DevOps is a combination of specific practices, culture change, and tools.  History  Proposals to combine software development methodologies with...
GitHub is a proprietary developer platform that allows developers to create, store, manage, and share their code. It uses Git to provide distributed version control, and GitHub itself provides access control, bug tracking, software feature requests, task management, continuous integration, and wikis for every project. GitHub, headquartered in San Francisco, is operated by Github, Inc., a subsidiary of Microsoft since 2018. It is commonly used to host open source software development projects. As of January 2023, GitHub reported having over 100 million developers and more than 420 million repositories, including at least 28 million public repositories. It is the world's largest source code host as of June 2023. Over five billion developer contributions were made to more than 500 million open source projects in 2024.  About   Founding  The development of the GitHub platform began on October 19, 2007. The site was launched in April 2008 by Tom Preston-Werner, Chris Wanstrath, P. J. Hyett, and Scott Chacon after it had been available for a few months as a beta release.  Structure of the organization  GitHub was originally a flat organization with no middle managers, instead...
PyCharm is an integrated development environment used for programming in Python. It provides code analysis, a graphical debugger, an integrated unit tester, integration with version control systems, and supports web development with Django. PyCharm is developed by the Czech company JetBrains and built on their IntelliJ platform. PyCharm is cross-platform, working on Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux. Portions of PyCharm's source code are released under the Apache License and available on GitHub, and a subscription is available to gain access to proprietary features.  Features   Free version  Python coding assistance and analysis, with code completion, syntax and error highlighting, linter integration, and quick fixes Project and code navigation: specialized project views, file structure views and quick jumping between files, classes, methods and usages Python code refactoring: including rename, update function signature, extract method, introduce variable, introduce constant, pull up, push down and others Integrated Python debugger Integrated unit testing, with line-by-line coverage Virtual environment, build tool and package management Embedded terminal and Python...
The T37 category is for ambulant athletes with cerebral palsy. These athletes have movement and coordination problems on one half of their body. They have good ability in their dominant side of their body . The Athletics at the 2016 Summer Paralympics - Men's 100 metres T37 event at the 2016 Paralympic Games took place on 10-11 September 2016, at the Estdio Olmpico Joo Havelange.  Heats   Heat 1  11:23 10 September 2016:  Heat 2  11:31 10 September 2016:  Final  10:52 11 September 2016:  Notes 
Porsche 542 or Studebaker Z-87 was a prototype made by Porsche for Studebaker in 1953. The first prototype Porsche 530, a four-seat version of the Porsche 356, was rejected. The new prototype got a different engine, a 3.0 liter, 120 degree V6, unusual for 1953. Two versions were developed, one air cooled 542L and one water cooled 542W. After testing, the water cooled engine was judged more practical as it gave slightly better performance at 105 horsepower and was also lighter. It was a sedan with independent suspension front and rear, also unusual for the time. The finished car and engines was due to have shipped over to Studebaker in 1953 or early 1954, but by then Studebaker was occupied with saving the company and it was only after the merger with Packard in 1956 they got around to have a look. But the design that was modern in 1953 was dated in 1956. John DeLorean evaluated the car and judged that it no longer filled any purpose and would not appeal to US car buyers.  References 
The 2nd Mississippi Cavalry Regiment was a unit of the Confederate States Army from Mississippi. Formed in the spring of 1862, the 2nd Cavalry took part in many battles of the western theater in Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee before surrendering in April 1865.  History  The 2nd Mississippi Cavalry Regiment was organized in the spring of 1862 at Columbus, Mississippi by James Gordon, who had previously served in Virginia as Captain of the Chickasaw Rangers, part of the Jeff. Davis Legion. The new Regiment was assigned to the command of Col. Frank C. Armstrong and Gordon was commissioned as Lieutenant Colonel. The 2nd Cavalry fought at the Battle of Iuka in September, and took part in supporting actions during the Second Battle of Corinth and the subsequent Confederate retreat from Corinth after the battle. As part of General Earl Van Dorn's cavalry corps, the 2nd Regiment fought in the Battle of Thompson's Station in Tennessee in March 1863. Under orders from General Nathan B. Forrest, the 2nd took part in the capture of a Federal fort at Brentwood, Tennessee the same month, and fought at the First Battle of Franklin in April. During this period when most of the Regiment...
Potomac Park is an unincorporated subdivision and census-designated place located on the North Branch Potomac River in Allegany County, Maryland, United States. As of the 2010 census, it had a population of 2,530. Potomac Park lies along U.S. Route 220 between Cresaptown and Cumberland. The CDP of Bowling Green is immediately to the north on Route 220. Within the boundaries of the community are the Allegany County Fairgrounds and the Western Correctional Institution.  Demographics   References 
Brenda Fitzgerald is an American obstetrician-gynecologist who served as the 17th Director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the Donald Trump administration from July 2017 to January 2018. Her tenure was one of the shortest in the office's history, excluding interim appointments. Previously, she was the Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Public Health from 2011 to 2017.  Early life and career  In 1972, Fitzgerald received her Bachelor of Science degree in microbiology from Georgia State University. She went on to medical school at Emory University, where she graduated in 1977, completed post-graduate training and became an assistant clinical professor. She then joined the United States Air Force, where she served first at Wurtsmith Air Force Base and later at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington, D.C. She attained the rank of Major in the Air Force. After leaving the Air force, Fizgerald entered private practice specializing in gynecology and obstetrics. While in private practice, Fitzgerald promoted anti-aging medicines to her patients, medicines which have been criticized as being unsupported by scientific evidence and potentially dangerous...
The 1908 County Carlow by-election was held on 3 February 1908. The by-election was held due to the death of the incumbent Irish Parliamentary MP, John Hammond. It was won by the Irish Parliamentary candidate Walter Kavanagh, who was elected unopposed. Kavanagh was endorsed by the Catholic Bishop of Kildare and Leighlin Dr. Patrick Foley , due to Kavanagh's support for a Catholic University of Ireland. Kavanagh served for Carlow until 1910.  References 
Danilo culture was a Neolithic culture of the Dalmatian coast of Croatia and parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, dating to 4700-3900 BC. The major archaeological site of the culture is at Danilo polje, near today's Danilo, Croatia. The fertile oval valley between two karst ridges was cultivated for millennia due to its quality soil, whose clayey composition allows water to be retained in the lower layers. The Danilo dig site consists of large numbers of pits and post holes whose associated material has been subdivided typologically into five phases. There are two associated pottery styles, painted in black and broad red bands on buff ware, and incised on dark burnished ware, belong in the Middle Neolithic. The geometric designs suggest connections with contemporary wares in Italy, particularly Ripoli and Serra D'Alto. There was also a long blade and tanged point stone industry closely related to fishing.  Gallery   See also  Impressed Ware Kakanj culture  References   Sources  Danilska kultura. Croatian Encyclopedia .  External links 
Days by Moonlight is a Canadian novel by writer Andr Alexis. It is the fifth novel in his planned Quincunx Cycle, a thematically linked series that examines faith, place, love, power and hatred which began with his 2014 novel Pastoral. Though labelled the fifth work in The Quincunx Cycle, it is the fourth by order of publication as the third quincunx will be the final one to be written and released. Days by Moonlight was published in 2019 by Coach House Books. The novel also featured illustrations by Linda Watson. It follows a botanist, Alfred Homer, who has lost his parents, who joins his friend, Professor Morgan Bruno on a journey through Southern Ontario.  Plot  Alfred Alfie Homer is a botanist who has just broken up with his long-term girlfriend, Anne, and who is coming up on the year anniversary of his parents' death in a car accident. He is invited to take a road trip through Southern Ontario with a friend of his parents, Morgan Bruno, a literature professor writing a book on a mysterious poet, John Skennen, who lived in various towns in Southern Ontario before mysteriously disappearing. As they travel through several small towns, Homer and Bruno encounter several exploitative...
Gradius is a 1985 horizontally scrolling shooter video game developed and published by Konami for arcades. It is the first installment in the Gradius series. The player maneuvers a spacecraft known as the Vic Viper that must defend itself from the various alien enemies. The game uses a power-up system called the power meter, based upon collecting capsules to acquire additional weapons. The arcade version of Gradius was initially released internationally outside Japan under the title of Nemesis, but subsequent home releases have since used the original title. During development, it had the working title Scramble 2, as it was originally intended to be a follow-up to Konami's earlier shooter Scramble . Home versions were released for various platforms, such as the Nintendo Entertainment System, the MS home computer, and the PC Engine. It was a major success in 1986, becoming the year's highest-grossing arcade game in London and one of Japan's top five table arcade games, while the Famicom port sold over a million copies in Japan that year. Nintendo released the NES version in arcades for the Nintendo VS. System as VS. Gradius and PlayChoice-10 in November 1986. Gradius was critically...
The Grand Strand is an arc of beach land on the Atlantic Ocean in South Carolina, United States, extending more than 60 miles from Little River to Winyah Bay. It is located in Horry and Georgetown counties on the northeastern South Carolina coast. It is often included in the Pee Dee region. The term Grand Strand dates back to a November 19, 1949 The Myrtle Beach Sun column, From the Grandstrand and another titled From the Grand Strand on December 3, 1949, in The Myrtle Beach News. The area has become a major tourist attraction along the Southeastern coast, attracting 20.6 million visitors in 2019. The area, whose primary city is Myrtle Beach, is home to numerous hotels, golf resorts, and recreational centers, making it popular with families and college students during the summers and winters.  Climate  According to Kppen climate classification, the Myrtle Beach area has a humid subtropical climate that is heavily influenced by the Atlantic Ocean, giving the area a more oceanic feel. The city experiences cool winters and hot, humid summers. Rainfall is plentiful throughout the whole year, but most concentrated during the summer months, where it is not uncommon for almost...
Manly Corner is a locality where the Yellowhead Highway intersects Highway 43 in Parkland County, Alberta. It is named after the nearby former locality of Manly, located northeast of the junction. An Alberta Heritage marker describes this Highway as leading to Dawson Creek, British Columbia, where the Alaska Highway begins, and signifies where the CANAME Corridor transitions from Highway 16 to Highway 43. Manly Corner is located about 35 kilometres west of Edmonton.  References 
Carr Manor is a Victorian grade II listed house in Meanwood, Leeds, England, designed by Edward Schroeder Prior and built for Thomas Clifford Allbutt . In 1881 it replaced Carr Manor House, though retaining the 1796 stable block. The former gardener's and housekeeper's cottages, the former stables and the wall, gate piers and gates are also grade II listed. It was Richard Norman Shaw's custom to give setting up commissions to his former pupils. Carr Manor was Edward Schroeder Prior's setting up commission on his departure in 1880. The house shows more of influence from Philip Webb than from Shaw. It follows the local vernacular of strong stone built manor houses of the 17th century.  Architecture  The influence of Shaw is recognisable. In particular, Shaw's houses at Flete House and Adcote were influential. Prior adopted Shaw's entrance hall scheme, rather than the vernacular screens passage that is characteristic of Yorkshire manor houses. The west side includes black and white work, reminiscent of Shaw. A Flemish influence is also apparent in the crow stepped gables of the east and west front. The local vernacular is also clearly an...
Corona School, Ikoyi is a co-educational independent school for children from ages 5 to 11. The school is a member of the Council of British International Schools, the Association of International Schools in Africa and governed by the Corona Schools' Trust Council.  History  The School was established in February 1960 and exercises a British and Nigerian curriculum. The school is also a member of the schools rugby league in Lagos, and one of Zenith Bank's Swimming competitors.  Heads of School  Mrs Jean Abili Mrs Catherine Adigwe Mrs Chika Nwokolo Mrs Bolanle Olubunmi Mrs Amelia Dafeta Mrs. Onafeso Adenike Mrs. Funlola Olorunishola  Notable alumni  Professor Yemi Osinbajo Senator Udoma Udo Udoma Lynxxx Desmond Majekodunmi Bankole Cardoso Yemi Cardoso Bruce Ovbiagele Award-winning Neurologist, Editor, Scientist, and Healthcare Leader  References 
General George Washington at Trenton is a large full-length portrait in oil painted in 1792 by the American artist John Trumbull of General George Washington at Trenton, New Jersey, on the night of January 2, 1777, during the American Revolutionary War. This is the night after the Battle of the Assunpink Creek, also known as the Second Battle of Trenton, and before the decisive victory at the Battle of Princeton the next day. The artist considered this portrait the best certainly of those which I painted. The portrait is on view at the Yale University Art Gallery in New Haven, Connecticut, an 1806 gift of the Society of the Cincinnati in Connecticut. It was commissioned by the city of Charleston, South Carolina, but was rejected by the city, resulting in Trumbull painting another version.  Commission  The work was commissioned by the city of Charleston, South Carolina, in 1792 to commemorate President Washington's visit there in May 1791 during his Southern Tour. Trumbull had visited Charleston earlier, in February 1791, to paint portraits of several leaders, including Charles Cotesworth Pinckney. Trumbull took the commission from William Loughton Smith, a representative of South...
Sirius Calling is an album by the Art Ensemble of Chicago recorded in April, 2003 in Madison, Wisconsin and released in 2004 on the Pi Recordings label. It features performances by Joseph Jarman, Roscoe Mitchell and Don Moye with Malachi Favors Maghostut on what would be the final album before his death. It was recorded on April 24-26, 2003 in Madison, WI.  Reception  The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow states that The music is as adventurous as ever ... the interplay between the four musicians, the mood variation which ranges from jubilant to introspective sound explorations and the wide range of tonal colors Mitchell and Jarman play many different instruments usually keep the concise music continually intriguing.  Track listing  Sirius Calling - 3:27 Come on Y'all - 4:10 Two-Twenty - 2:23 He Took a Cab to Neptune - 6:24 Everyday's a Perfect Day - 2:48 Til Autumn - 6:07 Dance of Circles - 5:39 Cruising with JJ - 4:33 You Can't Get Away - 3:48 Taiko Art Ensemble...
Fotheringay 2 is the second and final album by the group formed by Sandy Denny after she left Fairport Convention in 1969. The band was short-lived, and broke up in 1971 after only a small number of tracks for this album had been completed, some of which then subsequently appeared on other compilations. The remainder were assembled posthumously in the cases of Denny and Trevor Lucas, with additional studio recording as needed, from masters in various states of completeness by Jerry Donahue and finally released in 2008. Two songs originally worked on for this album were re-recorded and appeared on the first solo Denny album The North Star Grassman and the Ravens in 1971, with the latter featuring all Fotheringay members. Live versions of others had previously been known to collectors from recordings of BBC radio broadcasts and live concerts, as subsequently compiled on the 2015 release Nothing More: The Collected Fotheringay. The two Trevor LucasPeter Roche originals would later be recorded for Fairport Convention albums after Lucas and lead guitarist Jerry Donahue joined the group. Knights of the Road appeared on Rosie in 1973, also featuring...
Teunus Tolman 22 September 1924, in Oldeholtpade - 30 October 2007, in Oldeholtpade was a Dutch politician and farmer. He was a member of the House of Representatives from 1963 to 1979, representing the Christian Historical Union . From 1979 to 1986, he was a member of the European Parliament, until 1980 for the CHU and from 1980 onward for the CDA. Tolman died in Oldeholtpade in 2007.  References 
Su Junfeng is a Chinese former footballer who plays as a forward.  Career  Su started his career with Chinese fourth division side Baoding Rongda, helping them achieve promotion to the Chinese second division within 3 seasons. In 2017, he signed for Northern Tigers in the Australian third division. Before the 2018 season, Su signed for Chinese third division club Yinchuan Helanshan. On 29 January 2026, the Chinese Football Association announced that Su was banned from football-related activities in China for life for involving in match-fixing.  Career statistics   References   External links   at Baidu Baike Su Junfeng at WorldFootball.net
Yorb medicine, or egbogi, is a Yoruba system of herbalism practiced primarily in West Africa and the Caribbean.  Basic philosophies  According to A D Buckley, Yorb medicine has major similarities to conventional medicine in the sense that its main thrust is to kill or expel from the body tiny, invisible germs or insects which inhabit small bags within the body. For the Yoruba, however, these insects and worms perform useful functions in the healthy body, aiding digestion, fertility, etc. However, if they become too powerful in the body, they must be controlled, killed or driven out with bitter-tasting plants contained in medicines. Yorb medicine is quite different from homeopathy, which uses medicinal ingredients that imitates pathological symptoms. Rather, in a similar manner to mainstream Orthodox medicine, it strives to destroy the agents that cause disease. Buckley claims that traditional Yorb ideas of the human body are derived from the image of a cooking pot, susceptible to overflowing. The female body overflows dangerously but necessarily once a month insects and worms in the body can overflow their bags in the body if they are...
Wilderness medicine is a medical specialty concerned with medical care in remote, wilderness and expedition environments. The specialty includes prior planning, public health issues, a number of sub-specialties as well as responding to emergencies. One modern definition of wilderness medicine is medical care delivered in those areas where fixed or transient geographic challenges reduce the availability of, or alter requirements for, medical or patient movement resources. This rapidly evolving field is of increasing importance as more people engage in outdoor activities, with more participants coming from the extremes of age, and with more people engaging in high risk activities. The exact aegis of wilderness medicine as a specialty is in constant flux to match the requirements of patients underlying wilderness or remote activities. While wilderness medicine is the preferred terminology for this medical speciality in the United States, terminology such as extreme medicine, remote medicine or expedition medicine, are used internationally. Wilderness medicine overlaps with a number of other medical specialties in terms of knowledge base and scope of practice, these most notable include...
In the Middle Ages, the medicine of Western Europe was composed of a mixture of existing ideas from antiquity. In the Early Middle Ages, following the fall of the Western Roman Empire, standard medical knowledge was based chiefly upon surviving Greek and Roman texts, preserved in monasteries and elsewhere. Medieval medicine is widely misunderstood, thought of as a uniform attitude composed of placing hopes in the church and God to heal all sicknesses, while sickness itself exists as a product of destiny, sin, and astral influences as physical causes. But, especially in the second half of the medieval period , medieval medicine became a formal body of theoretical knowledge and was institutionalized in universities. Medieval medicine attributed illnesses, and disease, not to sinful behavior, but to natural causes, and sin was connected to illness only in a more general sense of the view that disease manifested in humanity as a result of its fallen state from God. Medieval medicine also recognized that illnesses spread from person to person, that certain lifestyles may cause ill health, and some people have a greater predisposition towards bad health than others. 2...
Adolescent medicine, also known as adolescent and young adult medicine, is a medical subspecialty that focuses on care of patients who are in the adolescent period of development. This period begins at puberty and lasts until growth has stopped, at which time adulthood begins. Typically, patients in this age range will be in the last years of middle school up until college graduation some doctors in this subspecialty treat young adults attending college at area clinics, in the subfield of college health. In developed nations, the psychosocial period of adolescence is extended both by an earlier start, as the onset of puberty begins earlier, and a later end, as patients require more years of education or training before they reach economic independence from their parents. Medicine is often categorized most simply as pediatric and adult, with the pediatric category covering from infancy through both childhood and adolescence. However, such categorization is further divided in some contexts, such that adolescent medicine can be a more specific focus within pediatrics and geriatrics can be a more specific focus within adult medicine. Issues with a high prevalence during adolescence are...
The National Academy of Medicine , known as the Institute of Medicine until 2015, is an American nonprofit, non-governmental organization though created by and mostly funded by the US government. The National Academy of Medicine is a part of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, along with the National Academy of Sciences , National Academy of Engineering , and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine . Operating outside the framework of the United States federal government, it relies on a volunteer workforce of scientists and other experts, operating under a formal peer-review system. As a national academy, the organization annually elects new members with the help of its existing members the election is based on the person's distinguished and continuing achievements in a relevant field as well as for their willingness to actively participate.  History  The institute was founded in 1970, under the congressional charter of the National Academy of Sciences as the Institute of Medicine. On April 28, 2015, NAS membership voted in favor of reconstituting the membership of the IOM as a new National Academy of Medicine...
The Medicine Men are a New Orleans, Louisiana-based American music production team made up of KLC, Mo B. Dick, Craig B, Odell and Carlos Stephens. The collective helped sell 30 million records for Master P's No Limit Records, from 1995 to 1999, as well the majority of releases from No Limit Records during the days it was distributed by Priority RecordsEMI. They would later receive nomination for Producers of the Year and collectively be voted as one of Hip-Hop's Thirty Most Powerful People by The Source in 1999. From 1995 to 1999 many of The Medicine Men productions featured hooks from Mo B. Dick or Odell Vickers credited as a featured artist.  Singles produced   Other production   Members  Current members KLC Mo B. Dick Craig B O'Dell Carlos Stephens Tre-8  References 
The treatise On Ancient Medicine Greek:    Latin: De vetere medicina is a work in the Hippocratic Corpus, a collection of about sixty writings covering all areas of medical thought and practice. Traditionally associated with Hippocrates, the father of Western medicine, philological evidence now suggests that it was written over a period of several centuries and stylistically seems to indicate that it was the product of many authors dating from about 450-400 B.C.  Ancient medicine in Greece  The medical practice of Hippocrates used natural aspects to treat diseases. The Hippocratic teachings on the value of knowing a patient's health, independence of thought, and the necessity for balance between the individuals, the social environment, and the natural environment. These foundations of health were incorporated in Ancient Greece to help discover the source of illness and to help promote health. To maintain health, Ancient Greeks followed the belief that physical and mental health work together. Aristotle believed that the best way to achieve harmony between the mind and body is to participate in sports and gymnastics. It has been suggested...
Neuromusculoskeletal medicine , now more formally known as osteopathic neuromusculoskeletal medicine , is a medical specialty of American osteopathic medicine. Physicians trained in the specialty focus on the clinical evaluation and management of disorders of the neuromusculoskeletal system and its related visceral and somatic structures. Both American DOs and MDs have the option to train and practice in any of the medical specialties and subspecialties. Neuromusculoskeletal medicine is a specialty which is dominated by DOs, but MDs may also become certified. ONMM physicians complete residency training that includes advanced training on the integration of osteopathic principles into inpatient and outpatient care. They have specialized expertise in the indications, risks, benefits, and application of osteopathic manipulative medicine for treatment of patients with neuromusculoskeletal and visceral disorders.  Osteopathic manipulative medicine  All osteopathic medical students receive training in OMM, a type of manual medicine specific to the osteopathic profession. OMM involves a physical examination to identify somatic dysfunction, then treatment of the somatic...
Ross University School of Medicine is a private, for-profit medical school. Its main campus is in Barbados, and its administrative offices are in Miramar, Florida. Until 2019, the university's main campus was in Portsmouth, Dominica but is now located in Barbados. RUSM is owned by Covista Inc.  History   Foundation  The medical school was founded in 1978 as The University of Dominica School of Medicine by Robert Ross, as a provider of medical education offering Doctor of Medicine degree programs, due to the scarcity of medical schools and physicians in the U.S. at the time. The university primarily serves students from the U.S. and Canada. In 1984, the university officially changed its name to Ross University School of Medicine. Ross University School of Medicine's charter class had 12 students. In 2013, the 10,000th graduate of Ross received their medical degree.  Early years and controversy  In 1984, the New Jersey Board of Medical Examiners ruled that the Ross University School of Medicine could no longer send students to hospitals in New Jersey for the hands-on part of their training due to significant weaknesses in the educational program. In 1985, California...
PLOS Medicine is a peer-reviewed weekly medical journal covering the full spectrum of the medical sciences. It began operation on October 19, 2004, as the second journal of the Public Library of Science , a non-profit open access publisher. All content in PLOS Medicine is published under the Creative Commons by-attribution license. To fund the journal, the publication's business model requires in most cases that authors pay publication fees. The journal was published online and in a printed format until 2005 and is now only published online. The journal's acting chief editor is Clare Stone, who replaced the previous chief editor, Larry Peiperl, in 2018.  Aims and scope  The journal's initial aim was to provide an open-access alternative to existing top-tier journals such as The New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet and has concentrated on publishing papers on diseases that take the greatest toll on health globally. In 2009 the journal reaffirmed its scope and noted that it would use an evidence-based approach to give highest priority to studies on diseases and risk factors that cause the greatest burden worldwide. From the outset...
Joseph Medicine Crow was a Native American writer, historian and war chief of the Crow Tribe. His writings on Native American history and reservation culture are considered seminal works, but he is best known for his writings and lectures concerning the Battle of the Little Bighorn of 1876. Medicine Crow was a World War II veteran, serving as a scout in the 103rd Infantry Division of the U.S. Army. He received the Bronze Star Medal and the Lgion d'honneur for his service during World War II. In 2009, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Barack Obama. Medicine Crow was a member of the Traditional Circle of Indian Elders and Youth. He was the last war chief of the Crow Tribe and the last Plains Indian war chief.  Early life  Joseph Medicine Crow was born in 1913 on the Crow Indian Reservation near Lodge Grass, Montana, to Amy Yellowtail and Leo Medicine Crow. As the Crow kinship system was matrilineal, he was considered born to his mother's people, and gained his social status from that line. Property and hereditary positions were passed through the maternal line. Chief Medicine Crow, Leo's father...
Medicine Walk is a 2014 novel by Canadian First Nations author Richard Wagamese. The novel relates the journey of 16-year-old Franklin Starlight and his dying, alcoholic father Eldon Starlight to find a burial site for Eldon at a place deep in the forest he remembers fondly from his youth.  References 
BMC Medicine is a peer-reviewed open access medical journal published since 2003 by BioMed Central. The journal is abstracted and indexed in Chemical Abstracts Service, BIOSIS Previews, Embase, MEDLINE, Science Citation Index Expanded, and Scopus. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2025 impact factor of 8.7.  References   External links  Official website
New Medicine is an American rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota, formed in 2009.  History  New Medicine was originally formed as A Verse Unsung by two friends, Jake Scherer and Dan Garland, who were attending Orono High School at the time. The two would write lyrics during classes then work through them musically at the Scherer family's farm in Medina where he lived. Kenny Fritze and Aaron Gates were later added to the band and eventually replaced. They signed to Photo Finish Records after forming the new band with Ryan Guanzon and Matt Brady, calling themselves New Medicine. Their debut album, Race You to the Bottom, was released September 18, 2010. The band has toured with major recording artists such as Avenged Sevenfold, Halestorm, Buckcherry, and Stone Sour. Their songs Race You to the Bottom, Laid, and Rich Kids have all been added into rotation on Sirius M Radio's Octane Channel. Laid hit number 32 on the Mainstream Rock chart in Spring 2011, Race You to the Bottom hit number 19 on the Mainstream Rock chart in Spring 2012, and Rich Kids hit number 31 on the Mainstream Rock chart in Fall 2012, respectively. On December 21, 2012, Brady...
Adhesions are fibrous bands that form between tissues and organs, often as a result of irritation of internal surfaces during surgery, infections or trauma. They may be thought of as internal scar tissue that connects tissues not normally connected.  Pathophysiology  Adhesions form as a natural part of the body's healing process after surgery in a similar way that a scar forms. The term adhesion is applied when the scar extends from within one tissue across to another, usually across a virtual space such as the peritoneal cavity. Adhesion formation post-surgery typically occurs when two injured surfaces are close to one another. According to the classical paradigm of adhesion formation, the pathogenesis starts with inflammation and activation of the coagulation system which causes fibrin deposits onto the damaged tissues. The fibrin then connects the two adjacent structures where damage of the tissues occurred. The fibrin acts like a glue to seal the injury and builds the fledgling adhesion, said at this point to be fibrinous. In body cavities such as the peritoneal, pericardial, and synovial cavities, a family of fibrinolytic enzymes may act to limit the extent of the initial...
In medicine, devices are sometimes necessary to create suction. Suction may be used to clear the airway of blood, saliva, vomit, or other secretions so that a patient may breathe. Suctioning can prevent pulmonary aspiration, which can lead to lung infections. In pulmonary hygiene, suction is used to remove fluids from the airways, to facilitate breathing and prevent growth of microorganisms. Small suction-providing devices are often called aspirators. In surgery suction can be used to remove blood from the area being operated on to allow surgeons to view and work on the area. Suction may also be used to remove blood that has built up within the skull after an intracranial hemorrhage. Suction devices may be mechanical hand pumps or battery or electrically operated mechanisms. In many hospitals and other health facilities, suction is typically provided by suction regulators, connected to a central medical vacuum supply by way of a pipeline system. The plastic, rigid Yankauer suction tip is one type of tip that may be attached to a suction device. Another is the plastic, nonrigid French or whistle tip catheter.  See also  Aspirator Dental suction  References 
Graduate School of Medicine and Faculty of Medicine is one of the schools at Kyoto University. The Faculty and the Graduate School operate as one. According to the QS World University Rankings for Medicine 2020, Kyoto University is ranked second in Japan after the University of Tokyo. Professor Shinya Yamanaka received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2012 for his work on iPS cells. Also, Prof. Emer. Tasuku Honjo, who is also a graduate of Kyoto University, won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2018 for his discovery and theory of immune checkpoint inhibitors.  History  In 1899, College of Medicine and its hospital was established Imperial University of Kyoto. In 1919, The college is renamed Faculty of Medicine . Established in 1939, the School of Medicine's Department of Pharmacy became an independent Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences in 1960. In 2003, the Health Sciences Department was added.  Organization  The Faculty has two undergraduate courses and four graduate courses.  Faculty of Medicine  Faculty of Medicine...
Addiction medicine is a medical subspecialty that deals with the diagnosis, prevention, evaluation, treatment, and recovery of persons with addiction, of those with substance-related and addictive disorders, and of people who show unhealthy use of substances including alcohol, nicotine, prescription medicine and other illicit and licit drugs. The medical subspecialty often crosses over into other areas, since various aspects of addiction fall within the fields of public health, psychology, social work, mental health counseling, psychiatry, and internal medicine, among others. Incorporated within the specialty are the processes of detoxification, rehabilitation, harm reduction, abstinence-based treatment, individual and group therapies, oversight of halfway houses, treatment of withdrawal-related symptoms, acute intervention, and long-term therapies designed to reduce likelihood of relapse. Some specialists, primarily those who also have expertise in family medicine or internal medicine, also provide treatment for disease states commonly associated with substance use, such as hepatitis and HIV infection. Physicians specializing in the field are in general agreement concerning applicability...
In medicine, an indication is a valid reason to use a certain test, medication, procedure, or surgery. There can be multiple indications to use a procedure or medication. An indication can commonly be confused with the term diagnosis. A diagnosis is the assessment that a particular medical condition is present while an indication is a reason for use. The opposite of an indication is a contraindication, a reason to withhold a certain medical treatment because the risks of treatment clearly outweigh the benefits. In the US, indications for prescription drugs are approved by the Food and Drug Administration . Indications are included in the Indications and Usage section of the Prescribing Information. The primary role of this section of labeling is to enable health care practitioners to readily identify appropriate therapies for patients by clearly communicating the drug's approved indication. The Indications and Usage section states the disease or condition, or manifestation or symptoms thereof, for which the drug is approved, as well as whether the drug is indicated for the treatment, prevention, mitigation, cure, relief, or diagnosis of that disease or condition. Additionally...
Ophthalmology is the branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis, treatment, and surgery of eye diseases and disorders. Ophthalmologists also diagnose systemic diseases using changes seen in the eyes. An ophthalmologist is a physician with an MD or DO degree who undergoes specialty training in medical and surgical eye care. In the United States, following graduation from medical school, one must complete a four-year residency in ophthalmology to become an ophthalmologist. Following residency, additional sub-specialty training may be sought in a particular aspect of eye diseases. Ophthalmologists prescribe medications to treat eye diseases, implement laser therapy, and perform surgery when needed. Ophthalmologists provide both primary and specialty eye care-medical and surgical. Most ophthalmologists participate in academic research on eye diseases at some point in their training, and many include research as part of their career. Ophthalmology has always been at the forefront of medical research with a long history of advancement and innovation in eye care. A former term for this medical branch is oculism.  Diseases... 
Beatrice Medicine Lakota: Ha Wat Agl Wi, lit. 'Returns Victorious with a Red Horse Woman' August 1, 1923 - December 19, 2005 was a Sihasapa and Minneconjou Lakota scholar, anthropologist, and educator known for her work in the fields of Indigenous languages, cultures, and history. Medicine spent much of her life researching, teaching, and serving Native communities, primarily in the fields of bilingual education, addiction and recovery, mental health, tribal identity, and women's, children's, and LGBT community issues.  Early life  Medicine was born on the Standing Rock Reservation in Wakpala, South Dakota on the 1st of August, 1923.  Education  Funded by a Laverne Noyes Scholarship, Medicine earned her BA in anthropology at South Dakota State University in 1945. She went on to teach in a number of roles between 1945 and 1951, including for a number of Native institutions: the Haskell Indian Institute , 1947-1948, Santo Domingo Pueblo, 1949-1950, the Albuquerque Indian School, 1950-1951, and the Flandreau Indian School, 1950-1954. Beginning in 1951, she went back to school to attend Michigan State University, partially funded by the Illinois Federation of...
In silico medicine is the application of in silico research to problems involving health and medicine. It is the direct use of computer simulation in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of a disease. More specifically, in silico medicine is characterized by modeling, simulation, and visualization of biological and medical processes in computers with the goal of simulating real biological processes in a virtual environment.  History  The term in silico was first used in 1989 at a workshop Cellular Automata: Theory and Applications by a mathematician from National Autonomous University of Mexico . The term in silico radiation oncology, a precursor of generic in silico medicine was coined and first introduced by G. Stamatakos in Proceedings of the IEEE in 2002. The same researcher coined and introduced the more generic term in silico oncology. In silico medicine is considered an extension of previous work using mathematical models of biological systems. It became apparent that the techniques used to model biological systems has utility to explain and predict dynamics in the medical field. The first fields in medicine to use in...
Jewish medicine is the practice of medicine among the Jewish people, which includes writing in both Hebrew and Arabic. As of 2024, 28 of Nobel Prize winners in medicine have been Jewish, even though Jews make up approximately 0.2 of the world's population.  History   Ancient  There are no extant texts of ancient medicine, as a first subject, of Hebrew origin. There was no medicine distinctly Jewish and instead Jewish practitioners had adopted Greek and later Graeco-Roman knowledge as practice. A text known as the Book of Remedies is recorded of in the Babylonian Talmud twice, and the baraita, evidently dating from at least the reign of Hezekiah. Likewise, a text known as Sefer Refuot, which means book of remedies, is known. However, its composition has been dated roughly to the time of the Byzantine Empire, anywhere from 1,000 and 1,700 years after Hezekiah.  Middle Ages   Jewish Medicine in the Early Middle Ages  Unlike with the Greeks and Arabs, there was not a specifically Jewish medical tradition in antiquity and the early Middle Ages. Jewish medical authors were influential in their translation of Greek, Latin, and Arabic texts into Hebrew to create a unique...
Acute medicine, also known as acute internal medicine , is a specialty within internal medicine concerned with the immediate and early specialist management of adult patients with a wide range of medical conditions who present in hospital as emergencies. It developed in the United Kingdom in the early 2000s as a dedicated field of medicine, together with the establishment of acute medical units in numerous hospitals. Acute medicine is distinct from the broader field of emergency medicine, which is concerned with the management of all people attending the emergency department, not just those with internal medicine diagnoses.  History  The field developed in the United Kingdom after the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow published a joint report in 1998 emphasising the importance of appropriate care for people with acute medical problems. Further reports led to the development of acute medicine as a dedicated specialty, and in 2003 it was recognised by the Specialist Training Authority as a subspecialty of General Internal Medicine. Around the same time, it was recognised that care for acutely admitted patients...
Citing Medicine: The NLM Style Guide for Authors, Editors, and Publishers is the style guide of the United States National Library of Medicine . Its main focus is citation style and bibliographic style. The citation style of Citing Medicine is the current incarnation of the Vancouver system, per the References  Style and Format section of the ICMJE Recommendations formerly called the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals. Citing Medicine style is the style used by MEDLINE and PubMed. The introduction section of Citing Medicine explains that three major sources are utilized in compiling Citing Medicine: the MEDLARS Indexing Manual of the National Library of Medicine  pertinent NISO standards, primarily ANSINISO Z39.29-2005 Bibliographic References and relevant standards from the International Organization for Standardization , primarily ISO 690 Documentation - Bibliographic References.  References   External links  Official website
Medicine Music is the third studio album by Bobby McFerrin, released in 1990. The album reached number 146 on the Billboard 200 and number 2 on the Top Contemporary Jazz Albums chart. The album was nominated for a 1991 Grammy Award, in the Best Contemporary Jazz Performance category.  Production  Voicestra, a 10-member a capella group formed by McFerrin, and Robert McFerrin, Bobby's father, appear on the album. Common Threads served as the theme song to the documentary Common Threads: Stories from the Quilt. McFerrin wrote all of the songs on Medicine Music. The lyrics to Discipline are based on several verses of the chapter Hebrews 12 from the New Testament, while the lyrics to The 23rd Psalm are based on Psalm 23 from the Old Testament.  Critical reception  The Los Angeles Times wrote that McFerrin sings splendidly, his intonation never faltering as he goes from throbbing bass notes to a soaring, light falsetto. The Austin American-Statesman wrote that McFerrin's penchant for unusual vocal innovation is present throughout the album, but it is the songs without words, nominally called instrumentals in the McFerrin musical universe, that are the most challenging....
In medicine, tenderness is pain or discomfort when an affected area is touched. It should not be confused with pain a person feels without physical contact. Pain is a person's perception, while tenderness is a sign elicited by a clinician.  See also  Rebound tenderness, an indication of peritonitis.  References 
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 487 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In computer programming, a reference is a value that enables a program to indirectly access a particular datum, such as a variable's value or a record, in the computer's memory or in some other storage device. The reference is said to refer to the datum, and accessing the datum is called dereferencing the reference. A reference is distinct from the datum itself. A reference is an abstract data type and may be implemented in many ways. Typically, a reference refers to data stored in memory on a given system, and its internal value is the memory address of the data, i.e. a reference is implemented as a pointer. For this reason a reference is often said to point to the data. Other implementations include an offset between the datum's address and some fixed base address, an index, or identifier used in a lookup operation into an array or table, an operating system handle, a physical address on a storage device, or a network address such as a URL.  Formal representation  A reference R is a value that admits one operation, dereference, which yields a value. Usually the reference is typed so that it returns values of a specific type, e.g.: Often the reference also...
Computer and information science CIS also known as information and computer science is a field that emphasizes both computing and informatics, upholding the strong association between the fields of information sciences and computer sciences and treating computers as a tool rather than a field. Information science is one with a long history, unlike the relatively very young field of computer science, and is primarily concerned with gathering, storing, disseminating, sharing and protecting any and all forms of information. It is a broad field, covering a myriad of different areas but is often referenced alongside computer science because of the incredibly useful nature of computers and computer programs in helping those studying and doing research in the field - particularly in helping to analyse data and in spotting patterns too broad for a human to intuitively perceive. While information science is sometimes confused with information theory, the two have vastly different subject matter. Information theory focuses on one particular mathematical concept of information while information science is focused on all aspects of the processes and techniques of information. Computer science...
In programming language theory and type theory, polymorphism allows a value or variable to have more than one type and allows a given operation to be performed on values of more than one type. In object-oriented programming, polymorphism is the provision of one interface to entities of different data types. The concept is borrowed from a principle in biology in which an organism or species can have many different forms or stages. The most commonly recognized major forms of polymorphism are: Ad hoc polymorphism: defines a common interface for an arbitrary set of individually specified types. Parametric polymorphism: does not specify concrete types and instead uses abstract symbols that can substitute for any type. Subtyping also called subtype polymorphism or inclusion polymorphism: when a name denotes instances of many different classes related by a common superclass.  History  Interest in polymorphic type systems developed significantly in the 1990s, with practical implementations beginning to appear by the end of the decade. Ad hoc polymorphism and parametric polymorphism were originally described in Christopher Strachey's Fundamental Concepts in Programming Languages, where...
Environment most often refers to: Natural environment, all living and non-living things occurring naturally that impact any organism or group of organisms  Other physical and cultural environments  Ecology, the study of the relations of organisms to one another and to their physical surroundings Environment , the surroundings of a physical system that may interact with the system by exchanging mass, energy, or other properties Built environment, constructed surroundings that provide the settings for human activity, ranging from the large-scale civic surroundings to the personal places Social environment, the culture that an individual lives in, and the people and institutions with whom they interact Market environment, business term  Arts, entertainment and publishing  Environment , a peer-reviewed, popular environmental science publication founded in 1958 Environment , 1917 American silent film Environment , 1922 American silent film Environment , 1927 Australian silent film Environments , a series of LPs, cassettes and CDs depicting natural sounds Environments , 2007, by The Future Sound of London Environment...
An information system is a formal, sociotechnical, and organizational system designed to collect, process, store, and distribute information. From a sociotechnical perspective, information systems comprise four components: task, people, structure , and technology. Information systems can be defined as an integration of components for collection, storage and processing of data, comprising digital products that process data to facilitate decision making and the data being used to provide information and contribute to knowledge. A computer information system is a system, which consists of people and computers that process or interpret information. The term is also sometimes used to simply refer to a computer system with software installed. Information systems is also an academic field of study about systems with a specific reference to information and the complementary networks of computer hardware and software that people and organizations use to collect, filter, process, create and also distribute data. An emphasis is placed on an information system having a definitive boundary, users, processors, storage, inputs, outputs and the aforementioned communication networks...
A computer program is a sequence or set of instructions in a programming language for a computer to execute. It is one component of software, which also includes documentation and other intangible components. A computer program in its human-readable form is called source code. Source code needs another computer program to execute because computers can only execute their native machine instructions. Therefore, source code may be translated to machine instructions using a compiler written for the language. Assembly language programs are translated using an assembler. The resulting file is called an executable. Alternatively, source code may execute within an interpreter written for the language. If the executable is requested for execution, then the operating system loads it into memory and starts a process. The central processing unit will soon switch to this process so it can fetch, decode, and then execute each machine instruction. If the source code is requested for execution, then the operating system loads the corresponding interpreter into memory and starts a process. The interpreter then loads the source code into memory to translate and execute each statement. Running the source...
In computer science, synchronization is the task of coordinating multiple processes to join up or handshake at a certain point, in order to reach an agreement or commit to a certain sequence of action.  Motivation  The need for synchronization does not arise merely in multi-processor systems but for any kind of concurrent processes even in single processor systems. Mentioned below are some of the main needs for synchronization: Forks and Joins: When a job arrives at a fork point, it is split into N sub-jobs which are then serviced by n tasks. After being serviced, each sub-job waits until all other sub-jobs are done processing. Then, they are joined again and leave the system. Thus, parallel programming requires synchronization as all the parallel processes wait for several other processes to occur. Producer-Consumer: In a producer-consumer relationship, the consumer process is dependent on the producer process until the necessary data has been produced. Exclusive use resources: When multiple processes are dependent on a resource and they need to access it at the same time, the operating system needs to ensure that only one processor accesses it at a given point in time. This reduces...
In computer programming, a guard is a Boolean expression that must evaluate to true if the execution of the program is to continue in the branch in question. Regardless of which programming language is used, a guard clause, guard code, or guard statement is a check of integrity preconditions used to avoid errors during execution. The term guard clause is a software design pattern attributed to Kent Beck who codified many often unnamed coding practices into named software design patterns. The practice of using this technique dates back to at least the early 1960s. The guard clause most commonly is added at the beginning of a procedure and is said to guard the rest of the procedure by handling edge cases upfront.  Uses  A typical example is checking that a reference about to be processed is not null, which avoids null-pointer failures. Other uses include using a Boolean field for idempotence , as in the dispose pattern.  Flatter code with less nesting  The guard provides an early exit from a subroutine, and is a commonly used deviation from structured programming, removing one level of nesting and resulting in flatter code: replacing if guard...
In computer science and software programming, a value is the representation of some entity that can be manipulated by a program. The members of a type are the values of that type. The value of a variable is given by the corresponding mapping in the environment. In languages with assignable variables, it becomes necessary to distinguish between the r-value and the l-value of a variable. In declarative languages, values have to be referentially transparent. This means that the resulting value is independent of the location of the expression needed to compute the value. Only the contents of the location and their interpretation are significant.  Value category  Despite its name, in the C language standards this terminology is used to categorize expressions, not values.  Assignment: l-values and r-values  Some languages use the idea of l-values and r-values, deriving from the typical mode of evaluation on the left and right-hand side of an assignment statement. An l-value refers to an object that persists beyond a single expression. An r-value is a temporary value that does not persist beyond the expression...
Carnegie Mellon University is a private research university in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The institution was established in 1900 by Andrew Carnegie as the Carnegie Technical Schools. In 1912, it became the Carnegie Institute of Technology and began granting four-year degrees. In 1967, it became Carnegie Mellon University through its merger with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research, founded in 1913 by Andrew Mellon and Richard B. Mellon and formerly a part of the University of Pittsburgh. The university consists of seven colleges, including the College of Engineering, the School of Computer Science, the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences, and the Tepper School of Business. The university has its main campus located five miles from downtown Pittsburgh. It also has over a dozen degree-granting locations on six continents, including campuses in Qatar, Silicon Valley, and Kigali, Rwanda . In 2022, Carnegie Mellon enrolled 15,818 students across its multiple campuses from 117 countries and employed more than 1,400 faculty members. Carnegie Mellon is a member of the Association of American Universities...
In computer science, marshalling or marshaling is the process of transforming the memory representation of an object into a data format suitable for storage or transmission, especially between different runtimes. It is typically used when data must be moved between different parts of a computer program or from one program to another. Marshalling simplifies complex communications, because it allows using composite objects instead of being restricted to primitive objects.  Comparison with serialization  Marshalling is sometimes used as synonymous with serializing, while serialization is actually one step in the process of marshalling an object. Marshalling is describing the overall intent or process to transfer some live object from a client to a server with client and server taken as abstract, mirrored concepts mapping to any matching ends of an arbitrary communication link ie. sockets. The point with marshalling an object is to have that object that is present in one running program be present in another running program that is, an object on the client should be transferred to the server, which is a form of reification allowing the object's structure, data and...
In computer programming, a statement is a syntactic unit of an imperative programming language that expresses some action to be carried out. A program written in such a language is formed by a sequence of one or more statements. A statement may have internal components . Many programming languages make a distinction between statements and definitionsdeclarations. A definition or declaration specifies the data on which a program is to operate, while a statement specifies the actions to be taken with that data. Statements which cannot contain other statements are simple those which can contain other statements are compound. The appearance of a statement is determined by its syntax or grammar. The meaning of a statement is determined by its semantics.  Simple statements  Simple statements are complete in themselves these include assignments, subroutine calls, and a few statements which may significantly affect the program flow of control . In some languages, input and output, assertions, and exits are handled by special statements, while other languages use calls to predefined...
A branch, jump or transfer is an instruction in a computer program that can cause a computer to begin executing a different instruction sequence and thus deviate from its default behavior of executing instructions in order. Branch may also refer to the act of switching execution to a different instruction sequence as a result of executing a branch instruction. Branch instructions are used to implement control flow in program loops and conditionals i.e., executing a particular sequence of instructions only if certain conditions are satisfied. A branch instruction can be either an unconditional branch, which always results in branching, or a conditional branch, which may or may not cause branching depending on some condition. Also, depending on how it specifies the address of the new instruction sequence , a branch instruction is generally classified as direct, indirect or relative, meaning that the instruction contains the target address, or it specifies where the target address is to be found , or it specifies the difference between the current and target addresses.  Implementation  Branch instructions...
In computer science, an expression is a syntactic entity in a programming language that may be evaluated to determine its value of a specific semantic type. It is a combination of one or more constants, variables, functions, and operators that the programming language interprets according to its particular rules of precedence and of association and computes to produce another value. In simple settings, the resulting value is usually one of various primitive types, such as string, boolean, or numerical such as integer, floating-point, or complex. Expressions are often contrasted with statements-syntactic entities that have no value .  Definition  Like in mathematics, an expression is used to denote a value to be evaluated for a specific value type supported by a programming language. In some cases an expression can't be fully evaluated in this case, the value is undefined, even though the calculation was effected and finished. The process of evaluating an expression to a well-defined value type is called evaluation it can occur in different contexts, such as definition and initialization .  Examples  2  3 is both...
In computer science, a production or production rule is a rewrite rule that replaces some symbols with other symbols. A finite set of productions P displaystyle P is the main component in the specification of a formal grammar . In such grammars, a set of productions is a special case of relation on the set of strings V  displaystyle V where  displaystyle  is the Kleene star operator over a finite set of symbols V displaystyle V called a vocabulary that defines which non-empty strings can be substituted with others. The set of productions is thus a special kind subset P  V   V  displaystyle Psubset Vtimes V and productions are then written...
A software design pattern describes a reusable solution to a commonly needed behavior in software. A design pattern is not a rigid structure to be copied directly into source code. Rather, it is a description of and a template for solving a particular type of problem that can be used in many different contexts, including different programming languages and computing platforms. Design patterns can be viewed as formalized best practices that the programmer may use to solve common problems when designing software. Object-oriented design patterns typically show relationships and interactions between classes or objects, without specifying the final application classes or objects that are involved. Patterns that imply mutable state may be unsuited for functional programming languages. Some patterns can be rendered unnecessary in languages that have built-in support for solving the problem they are trying to solve, and object-oriented patterns are not necessarily suitable for non-object-oriented languages.  History  Patterns originated as an architectural concept by Christopher Alexander as early as 1977 in A Pattern Language cf. his article, The Pattern of Streets, JOURNAL OF THE...
In object-oriented programming, inheritance is the mechanism of basing an object or class upon another object or class , retaining similar implementation. It is also defined as deriving new classes from existing ones such as super class or base class and then forming them into a hierarchy of classes. In most class-based object-oriented languages like C, an object created through inheritance, a child object, acquires all the properties and behaviors of the parent object, with the exception of: constructors, destructors, overloaded operators and friend functions of the base class. Inheritance allows programmers to create classes that are built upon existing classes, to specify a new implementation while maintaining the same behaviors , to reuse code and to independently extend original software via public classes and interfaces. The relationships of objects or classes through inheritance give rise to a directed acyclic graph. An inherited class is called a subclass of its parent class or super class. The term inheritance is loosely used for both class-based and prototype-based programming...
In computer programming, cohesion refers to the degree to which the elements inside a module belong together. In one sense, it is a measure of the strength of relationship between the methods and data of a class and some unifying purpose or concept served by that class. In another sense, it is a measure of the strength of relationship between the class's methods and data. Cohesion is an ordinal type of measurement and is usually described as high cohesion or low cohesion. Modules with high cohesion tend to be preferable, because high cohesion is associated with several desirable software traits including robustness, reliability, reusability, and understandability. In contrast, low cohesion is associated with undesirable traits such as being difficult to maintain, test, reuse, or understand. Cohesion is often contrasted with coupling. High cohesion often correlates with loose coupling, and vice versa. The software metrics of coupling and cohesion were invented by Larry Constantine in the late 1960s as part of Structured Design, based on characteristics of good programming practices that reduced maintenance and modification costs. Structured Design, cohesion and coupling were published...
Radixin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RD gene. Radixin is a cytoskeletal protein that may be important in linking actin to the plasma membrane. It is highly similar in sequence to both ezrin and moesin. The radixin gene has been localized by fluorescence in situ hybridization to 11q23. A truncated version representing a pseudogene was assigned to p21.3. Another pseudogene that seemed to lack introns was mapped to 11p by Southern and PCR analyses.  Interactions  Radixin has been shown to interact with GNA13.  See also  ERM protein family  References   Further reading 
Mary Parets was an Argentine actress. In 1943 she starred in Benito Perojo's Stella. Other notable films include The Boys Didn't Wear Hair Gel Before , Ambicin and Los pagares de Mendieta .  Selected filmography  The Boys Didn't Wear Hair Gel Before  References   External links  Mary Parets at IMDb
Back Home Again is the twenty-fourth studio album by American country music artist Kenny Rogers released on November 16, 1991. It was Rogers' last album to be released through Reprise Records. The album was Rogers' second album not to attain any certifications from the RIAA and only reached number 42 on the U.S. Country charts.  Track listing   Personnel  Compiled from liner notes. Musicians Kenny Rogers - lead vocals Mike Lawler - synthesizers Phil Naish - keyboards, synthesizers, synth string arrangements Bobby Ogdin - acoustic piano, keyboards Hargus Pig Robbins - acoustic piano Steve Gibson - electric guitars, acoustic guitar, mandolin, mandola John Hug - acoustic guitar Biff Watson - acoustic guitar Hoot Hester - mandolin, mandola, fiddle Dan Dugmore - steel guitar Sonny Garrish - steel guitar Jay Dee Maness - steel guitar Michael Rhodes - bass Eddie Bayers - drums Paul Leim - drums Billy Thomas - drums Terry McMillan - harmonica, percussion Farrell Morris - marimbas Eric Prestidge - synth string arrangements Bergen White - string arrangements and conductor Carl Gorodetzky - string contractor and concertmaster The Nashville String Machine - strings Steve Glassmeyer...
Sir John Hamely or Hamylyn , of Wimborne St. Giles, Dorset, was an English Member of Parliament . He was a Member of the Parliament of England for Liskeard in 1355, for Lostwithiel in 1355, 1358, for Truro in 1355, 1358 for Cornwall in 1357, 1360 and 1362, for Launceston in 1358, for Helston in 1358 and 1361, for Bodmin in 1361, for Dorset in 1371, 1376, January 1377 and 1391.  References 
A Night in Terror Tower is the twenty-seventh book in the original Goosebumps, the series of children's horror fiction novels created and authored by R. L. Stine. It was adapted into a two-part episode, an audiobook, and a board game. The plot is loosely based on the historical Princes in the Tower.  Plot  Sue and her younger brother Eddie are American tourists in London. After Eddie wants to visit the Tower of London, they join a tour of the castle. As the tour progresses, Sue notices that a man wearing all black with a black hood over his face is following them as they move throughout the castle. The man in black, who also wears a cape, chases them and the children manage to escape. After going back to their hotel room, they find out that the suite is empty and that their parents are not in the hotel, and the children have trouble remembering their last name. After they leave the hotel's restaurant, the man in black blocks their path, and sends them to Medieval times with magical stones. Confused, alone, and frightened, Eddie and Sue are once again stalked by the man in black. After Eddie disappears, Sue eventually finds refuge in the home of a peasant woman who promises to keep...
Manolita is a diminutive form of the Spanish given name Manola, in turn a diminutive of Manuela. Notable people with the name include: Manolita Arriola , Mexican singer and actress Manolita Cinco , Filipina hurdler Manolita Pia , Spanish-Uruguayan pianist and painter Manolita Saval , Spanish actress and singer  See also  Manola Manolito
The Federal budget 2019-20 is the federal budget of Pakistan for the fiscal year beginning from 1 July 2019 and ending on 30 June 2020. It was presented by Revenue Minister Hammad Azhar on 11 June 2019 at the National Assembly with a total outlay of . 7.022 tn.  References 
Phoxomeloides gedyei is a species of beetle of the family Scarabaeidae. It is found in Kenya.  Description  Adults reach a length of about 16 mm . They are small, glossy black, and yellow-spotted. The rear half of the elytra is completely black.  References 
Alim Louis Benabid is a French-Algerian emeritus professor, neurosurgeon and member of the French Academy of Sciences, who has had a global impact in the development of deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease and other movement disorders. He became emeritus professor of biophysics at the Joseph Fourier University in Grenoble in September 2007, and chairman of the board of the Edmond J. Safra Biomedical Research Center in 2009 at Clinatec, a multidisciplinary institute he co-founded in Grenoble that applies nanotechnologies to neurosciences.  Biography  Alim Louis Benabid was born May 2, 1942, in Grenoble, France. The son of a doctor from Algeria and of a French nurse, Benabid was quoted as saying he could not easily decide between studying physics or medicine. He received his medical degree in 1970 and a doctorate in physics in 1978, both from Joseph Fourier University now part of the Universit Grenoble Alpes in Grenoble. He became a staff neurosurgeon at Joseph Fourier University in 1972, professor of experimental medicine in 1978, and professor of biophysics from 1983 to 2007. Benabid also had a fellowship in 1979 - 1980 in preclinical neuropharmacology in the laboratory...
Palifermin trade name Kepivance, marketed by Biovitrum is a truncated human recombinant keratinocyte growth factor produced in Escherichia coli. KGF stimulates the growth of cells that line the surface of the mouth and intestinal tract.  Therapeutic use  When patients with blood cancers receive high dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy to undergo bone marrow transplantation, they usually get severe oral mucositis. Palifermin reduces the incidence and duration of severe oral mucositis by protecting those cells and stimulating the growth of new epithelial cells to build up the mucosal barrier. Palifermin is also being studied in the prevention and treatment of oral mucositis and dysphagia in other types of cancer.  Drug target and mechanism of action  Keratinocyte growth factor resides in the family of fibroblast growth factor . The drug's target is the KGF receptor. Through the binding of this drug to the aforementioned receptor, Palifermin stimulates epithelial cell proliferation, differentiation, and upregulation of cytoprotective mechanisms to reduce the symptoms of oral mucositis.  Side effects... 
The 2016 Internazionali Femminili di Brescia was a professional tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts. It was the ninth edition of the tournament and part of the 2016 ITF Women's Circuit, offering a total of 50,000 in prize money. It took place in Brescia, Italy, on 30 May-5 June 2016.  Singles main draw entrants   Seeds  1 Rankings as of 23 May 2016.  Other entrants  The following player received a wildcard into the singles main draw: Georgia Brescia Nastassja Burnett Cristiana Ferrando Claudia Giovine The following players received entry from the qualifying draw: Julia Grabher Beatriz Haddad Maia Ana Sofa Snchez Viktoriya Tomova  Champions   Singles  Karin Knapp def. Jesika Malekov, 6-1, 6-2  Doubles  Deborah Chiesa  Martina Colmegna def. Cindy Burger  Stephanie Vogt, 6-3, 1-6,  References   External links  2016 Internazionali Femminili di Brescia at ITFtennis.com Official website
Pete and Dud: Come Again is a stage play about British Beyond the Fringe comedians Peter Cook and Dudley Moore, which was written by Chris Bartlett and Nick Awde. The comedy-drama had a sold-out run at the Assembly Rooms as part of the 2005 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, where it was shortlisted for a Fringe First Award by The Scotsman, before moving to London's West End at The Venue in March 2006 this version starred Kevin Bishop as Moore, Tom Goodman-Hill as Cook, Colin Hoult as Jonathan Miller, and Fergus Craig as Alan Bennett. It was published in playtext form by Methuen. Pete and Dud: Come Again examines the highly-influential comic relationship which existed between Cook and Moore. Set on a chat show during the early 1980s, it tells their tale from the perspective of Dudley Moore and celebrates the contribution he made to their comedy. In June 2006, it had a short run in Auckland, New Zealand, as part of the Bruce Mason Centre's Best of British festival and toured the UK in spring 2007 beginning at the Yvonne Arnaud Theatre in Guildford.  See also  Not Only But Always  References 
Terence Scott is an Irish Anglican priest. He has been Archdeacon of Armagh since 2014. Scott was educated at Queen's University, Belfast. He was ordained in 1981 and his first posts were curacies at Ballymena and Antrim. After that he held incumbencies at Connor and Magherafelt. He was vicar choral at Armagh Cathedral from 1995 to 2006 when he was appointed a canon.  References 
Fly is the tenth studio album by the Italian blues rock singer-songwriter Zucchero Fornaciari, released on 22 September 2006. The album was mostly recorded in 2006 at the Henson Recording Studios in Hollywood with producer Don Was, and previewed at the historic Ca' Vendramin Calergi in Venice, on 18 September 2006.  Overview  The album Fly is subtitled Come possiamo volare con le aquile se siamo contornati da tacchini, translated How we can fly among eagles when we are surrounded by turkeys. The album is Zucchero's small cloud of love on the rain of disharmony around us. Like in the case of his albums, it includes several notable collaborations. The lyrics of the song Troppa fedelt were co-written by Jovanotti, while those of  delicato along Ivano Fossati. The song L'Amore  nell'aria is a cover of British band Feeder's song Broken, a B-side taken from the single Just the Way I'm Feeling, originally written by Grant Nicholas. Zucchero rearranged the song by Nicholas, and composed new lyrics in Italian. The songs were recorded by many notable musicians like Brian Auger on the piano, electric piano and Hammond organ, Pino Palladino the bass guitar 2, 5, 9,...
Chew Peck Choo is a Malaysian politician from Democratic Action Party. She was the Member of Johor State Legislative Assembly for Yong Peng from 2013 to 2022.  Education  She has studied in the Kluang High School and SMK Dato Menteri. She is a Bachelor of Mathematics and Bachelor of Science from University of Malaya.  Politics  In the 2013 Malaysian general election, she won the Yong Peng seat on the ticket of DAP and was able to defend her seat in the 2018 Malaysian general election. She was the Treasurer for DAP Johor from 2004 to 2013. She was also the Women's Chief of DAP Johor from 2013 to 2016, Deputy Women's Chief from 2016 to 2018 and Assistant of Women's Chief from 2018 to 2022.  Election results   Health  She had suffered from stroke in 2018 but has recovered completely in 2020.  Retirement  On 22 January 2022, she announced her retirement from politics and will not participate in the 2022 Johor state election.  References 
Shabda is the Sanskrit word for speech sound. In Sanskrit grammar, the term refers to an utterance in the sense of linguistic performance.  History  In classical Indian philosophy of language, the grammarian Katyayana stated that shabda is eternal , as is artha meaning, and that they share a mutual co-relation. According to Patanjali, the permanent aspect of shabda is sphoa , while dhvani is ephemeral to shabda. Om, or Aum, a sacred syllable of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism, is considered to be the first resonating vibrational sound within an individual being. It also denotes the non-dualistic universe as a whole. In Buddhism, Om corresponds to the crown chakra and white light. Bhartrihari, on the other hand, held a shabda-advaita position, identifying shabda as indivisible, and unifying the notions of cognition and linguistic performance, which is ultimately identical to Brahman. Bhartrhari recognised two entities, both of which may be referred to as shabda. One entity is the underlying cause of the articulated sounds, while the other entity is the functionality that is used to express...
Welcome to My Mind is the debut studio album by the American rock and roll band Hi-Fives. The album was released in 1995 by Lookout! It was nominated for a Bammy Award. The band supported the album by opening several shows on Green Day's 1995 tour.  Critical reception  The Lawrence Journal-World deemed the album a combination of archaic Brit-pop and ground-breaking punk. In 2012, Spin called it a near-perfect garage-punk-pop masterpiece.  Track listing  Welcome to My Mind Transister Sister Seven Years Gone Gone Gone How Narvell Felt  Moto You'll Screw the Pooch Love You Better Go Feral In Just 3 Days Angie Humping Away Let's Hear a Cheer Beauty Is the Mind Losing Sleep Out of Control  References   External links  Welcome To My Mind , by The Hi-Fives
Rangaraya Medical College is a public medical college in Andhra Pradesh. It was established in 1958 and is in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh, India. It is affiliated to Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences.  History  Rangaraya Medical College was started as a private medical college in 1958. It was the result of dedicated efforts by Dr. Mallavarapu Venkata Krishna Rao, who was the then Minister of Education in the cabinet of Sri Chakravarti Rajagopalachari in the composite Madras state. He was later joined by Col. D. S. Raju, MRCP, who was a personal physician of Sri Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and later Deputy Minister of Defence and Health in the cabinet of Jawaharlal Nehru. Though their efforts started in 1955 the college became a reality on 2 April 1958 in a meeting in Kakinada attended by Sri Neelam Sanjiva Reddy, the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh in the house of Dr Lakkaraju Subbarao where the Maharajah of Pithapuram gave consent to start the Medical College in an orphanage building being run by him on pithapuram road Kakinada. As a first step a Society called 'Kakinada Medical Education Society' was registered on 16 April 1958 to oversee the starting of the Medical...
I Am an Elastic Firecracker is the second studio album by Tripping Daisy, released on June 20, 1995, through Island Records. It is the band's major label debut, and was produced by Ted Niceley. It featured the band's biggest hit, I Got a Girl, whose video received extensive airplay on MTV. By 1998, the album had sold over 300,000 copies in the United States. The album was certified Platinum in Canada on May 1, 1998.  Cover art  The album's cover art features a photo of Italian artist Guglielmo Achille Cavellini. The photo originated as a piece of stamp art by E.F. Higgins.  Accolades   Track listing  All songs have stylized capitalization wherever they are mentioned.  Personnel  Tripping Daisy Tim DeLaughter - vocals, guitar, artwork Wes Berggren - guitar Mark Pirro - bass Bryan Wakeland - drums Additional Ted Niceley - producer Tripping Daisy - producer Andy Baker - recording engineer Tom Lord-Alge - mixing engineer Bob Ludwig - mastering engineer  Charts   Release history   References 
Metcalfe's law states that the financial value or influence of a telecommunications network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system . The law is named after Robert Metcalfe and was first proposed in 1983, albeit not in terms of users, but rather of compatible communicating devices . It later became associated with users on an Ethernet network after a September 1993 Forbes article by George Gilder.  Network effects  Metcalfe's law characterizes many of the network effects of communication technologies and networks such as the Internet, social networking and the World Wide Web. Former Chairman of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission Reed Hundt said that this law gives the most understanding to the workings of the present-day Internet. Mathematically, Metcalfe's Law shows that the number of unique possible connections in an n displaystyle n -node connection can be expressed as the triangular number n  2 displaystyle n2...
The minister for justice, home affairs and migration Irish: An tAire Dl agus Cirt, Gntha Baile agus Imirce is a senior minister in the Government of Ireland and leads the Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration. The minister for justice, home affairs and migration has overall responsibility for law and order in Ireland. The minister for justice, home affairs and migration since January 2025 is Jim O'Callaghan, TD. He is assisted by two ministers of state: Niall Collins, TD - Minister of State for International law, law reform and youth justice Colm Brophy, TD - Minister of State for Migration  History  From 1919 until 1924 the position was known as the minister for home affairs. It was renamed as the minister for justice under the Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924. The title has been altered a number of times since 1997, with its current title dating from 2025.  Overview  The Minister's main areas of responsibility include: Implementing government policy and proposing new policy on crime, immigration, asylum, criminal and civil law reform and the criminal justice system in general. Implementation of government policy and proposing new policy in relation to...
In mathematical queueing theory, Little's law is a theorem by John Little which states that the long-term average number of customers in a stationary system is equal to the long-term average effective arrival rate multiplied by the average time that a customer spends in the system . Expressed algebraically the law is L   W . displaystyle Llambda W. The relationship is not influenced by the arrival process distribution, the service distribution, the service order, or practically anything else. In most queuing systems, service time is the bottleneck that creates the queue. The result applies to any system, and particularly, it applies to systems within systems. For example in a bank branch, the customer line might be one subsystem, and each of the tellers another subsystem, and Little's result could be applied to each one, as well as the whole thing. The only requirement is that the system be ergodic. In some cases it is possible not only to mathematically relate the average number in the system to the average wait but even to relate the entire probability...
Rafferty Raff Jellicoe Frost Law is an English actor.  Early life  Law attended Bedales School in Hampshire. He appeared in his first play aged five or six in a school production of Pinocchio. He also played Long John Silver in a production of Treasure Island.  Career   Music  Law was in the band Outer Stella Overdrive with Kelvin Bueno, who was introduced to him by his sister Iris as they had such similar taste in music. The band expanded to include keyboardist Amin El Makkawi, and drummer Ruby Albarn, nephew of Damon Albarn. The band released their debut single State Your Name, in 2018. Law and Bueno would share lyric writing duties. They released their debut EP Clout  Self Doubt in 2021.  Modelling  Law walked for DKNY in 2014 whilst still a teenager. His first magazine cover was in 2016 for L'Officiel Hommes Netherlands. Law walked for Dolce and Gabbana during Milan Fashion Week. He has also worked with the likes of Missoma, Valentino, Mulberry, and Brioni.  Acting  Law appears in The Hat, a 2020 short film with his father Jude Law, which was shot on an iPhone during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. It has a musical score by Pete Townshend...
The Law of ... is a French drama television series. It has been distributed since 2014 on France 3 and on Eurochannel in other territories like the United States, Latin America and some European countries.  Plot  The Investigations of a lawyer for 3 Episodes. Conceived as a three-episode miniseries, Barbara's Law is one of the most praised television endeavors taken in France in recent years. In this production, Barbara, a lawyer by the book, does not get any rest until she is sure justice has triumphed in every case she takes her only condition is the existence of doubt on her client's guilt! Also conceived as a three-episode miniseries, Alexandre's Law is, like its prequel, one of the most praised television endeavors undertaken in France in recent years. In this production, Alexandre, a successful lawyer who faces more difficult cases in court.  Casting  Josiane Balasko : Lawyer Barbara Malo Grard Jugnot : Lawyer Alexandre Laurent Daniel Prvost : Lawyer Simon Varlet Richard Anconina : Lawyer Christophe Vitari Zabou Breitman : Lawyer Pauline Victoria Abril : Lawyer Gloria Jean-Pierre Darroussin : Lawyer Julien Meunier Charlotte...
Muphry's law is an adage that states: If you write anything criticizing editing or proofreading, there will be a fault of some kind in what you have written. The name is a deliberate misspelling of Murphy's law.  History  John Bangsund of the Society of Editors in Australia identified Muphry's law as the editorial application of the better-known Murphy's law, and set it down in March 1992 in the Society of Editors Newsletter in his column John Bangsund's Threepenny Planet. The law, as set out by Bangsund, states that: if you write anything criticizing editing or proofreading, there will be a fault of some kind in what you have written if an author thanks you in a book for your editing or proofreading, there will be mistakes in the book the stronger the sentiment expressed in and , the greater the fault any book devoted to editing or style will be internally inconsistent. In November 2003, the Canberra Editor added the following elaboration: Muphry's Law also dictates that, if a mistake is as plain as the nose on your face, everyone can see it but you. Your readers will always notice errors in a title, in headings, in the first paragraph...
In logic, the law of noncontradiction LNC also known as the law of contradiction, principle of non-contradiction , or the principle of contradiction states that for any given proposition, the proposition and its negation cannot both be simultaneously true, e.g., the proposition the house is white and its negation the house is not white are mutually exclusive. To express the fact that the law is tenseless and to avoid equivocation, sometimes the law is amended to say contradictory propositions cannot both be true at the same time and in the same sense. Formally, the law is expressed as the tautology . One reason to have this law is the principle of explosion, which states that anything follows from a contradiction, resulting in trivialism. The law is employed in a reductio ad absurdum proof. Paraconsistent logics are those logics which deny explosion.  History  Early in philosophy, it is hard to distinguish between different conceptions of the law of non-contradiction. One can interpret a logical law ontologically, e. g. to say nothing in reality is contradictory one can interpret it psychologically, to say one cannot believe in a contradiction, and one...
Kirchhoff's circuit laws are two equalities that deal with the current and potential difference in the lumped element model of electrical circuits. They were first described in 1845 by German physicist Gustav Kirchhoff. This generalized the work of Georg Ohm and preceded the work of James Clerk Maxwell. Widely used in electrical engineering, they are also called Kirchhoff's rules or simply Kirchhoff's laws. These laws can be applied in time and frequency domains and form the basis for network analysis. Both of Kirchhoff's laws can be understood as corollaries of Maxwell's equations in the low-frequency limit. They are accurate for DC circuits, and for AC circuits at frequencies where the wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation are very large compared to the circuits.  Kirchhoff's current law  This law, also called Kirchhoff's first law, or Kirchhoff's junction rule, states that, for any node in an electrical circuit, the sum of currents flowing into that node is equal to the sum of currents flowing out of that node or equivalently: The algebraic sum of currents in a network of conductors meeting at a point is zero. Recalling that current...
A ban on sharia law is legislation that prohibits the application or implementation of Islamic law in courts in any civil jurisdiction. In the United States for example, various states have banned Sharia law, or a ballot measure was passed that prohibits the state's courts from considering foreign, international or religious law. As of 2026, these include Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Kansas, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, and Tennessee. In the Canadian province of Ontario, family law disputes are arbitrated only under Ontario law.  United States   Constitutional prohibitions and accommodations  Because of the Establishment Clause of the United States Constitution, no religious tradition can be established as the basis of laws that apply to everyone, including any form of sharia, Christian canon law, Jewish halakha, or rules of dharma from Hinduism and Buddhism. Laws must be passed in a secular fashion, not by religious authorities. The Free Exercise Clause allows residents to practice any religion or no religion, and there is often controversy about separation of church and state and the balance between these two clauses when the government...
In astronomy, Kepler's laws of planetary motion give good approximations for the orbits of planets around the Sun. They were published by Johannes Kepler from 1609 to 1621 in three works Astronomia nova, Harmonice Mundi and Epitome Astronomiae Copernicanae. The laws were based on Kepler's concept of solar fibrils adapted to the accurate astronomical data of Tycho Brahe. These laws replaced the circular orbits and epicycles of Copernicus's heliostatic model of the planets with a heliocentric model that described elliptical orbits with planetary velocities that vary accordingly. The three laws state that: The orbit of a planet is an ellipse with the Sun at one of the two foci. A line segment joining a planet and the Sun sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time. The square of a planet's orbital period is proportional to the cube of the length of the semi-major axis of its orbit. The elliptical orbits of planets were indicated by calculations of the orbit of Mars. From this, Kepler inferred that other bodies in the Solar System, including those farther away from the Sun, also have elliptical orbits. The second law establishes that when a planet is closer to the Sun, it travels...
Murphy's law is an adage or epigram that is typically stated as: Anything that can go wrong will go wrong. Though similar statements and concepts have been made over the course of history, the law itself was coined by, and named after, American aerospace engineer Edward A. Murphy Jr. its exact origins are debated, but it is generally agreed it originated from Murphy and his team following a mishap during rocket sled tests some time between 1948 and 1949, and was finalized and first popularized by testing project head John Stapp during a later press conference. Murphy's original quote was the precautionary design advice that If there are two or more ways to do something and one of those results in a catastrophe, then someone will do it that way. The law entered wider public knowledge in the late 1970s with the publication of Arthur Bloch's 1977 book Murphy's Law, and Other Reasons Why Things Go WRONG, which included other variations and corollaries of the law. Since then, Murphy's law has remained a popular adage, though its accuracy has been disputed by academics. Similar laws include Sod's law, Finagle's law, and Yhprum's law, among others.  History  The perceived perversity...
Law and Order may refer to:  In politics  The preservation of the rule of law The keeping of the peace Law and order , a term common in political debate and discussion, generally indicating support of a strict criminal justice system Law and Order Offensive Party, a former minor German political party Operation Law and Order, an Israeli military operation against a Hezbollah base in Lebanon Law and Order, previous name of Platform 21, a minor right-wing Latvian political party  In entertainment and media   In film  Law and Order , a Western Law and Order , a Western Law and Order , a Billy the Kid Western Law and Order , a Western Law and Order , a documentary Law and Order , an action-thriller Exiled: A Law  Order Movie, a 1998 drama  In television  Law  Order , a number of related police and legal dramas created by Dick Wolf for NBC: Law  Order , the first series in the franchise Law  Order: Special Victims Unit , the second series in the franchise Law  Order: Criminal Intent , the third series in the franchise...
John Law may refer to:  Arts and entertainment  John Law , American artist John Law , comic-book character created by Will Eisner John Law , a fictional character from DC Comics John Law , Hong Kong film director John Law , British jazz pianist and composer John Law , an 1864 novel by William Henry Ainsworth John Law , British TV comedy writer John Law, pseudonym of Margaret Harkness , English journalist and writer John Phillip Law , American film actor John Law, a song by Dropkick Murphys first released on The Singles Collection, Volume 1  Politics  John Law , U.S. Representative from Indiana John Law , mayor of Rodney District in New Zealand John Martin Law Jr. , mayor of Eau Gallie, Florida, from 1943 to 1950  Religion  John Law , English mathematician and Church of Ireland bishop John Law , Anglican priest John Law , Scottish minister  Science and academia  John Law , Scottish economist John...
The law of holes, or the first law of holes, is an adage that states: If you find yourself in a hole, stop digging. It is used as a metaphor, warning that when in an untenable position, it is best to stop making the situation worse.  Meaning  When it is said, if you find yourself in a hole, stop digging, it is because digging a hole makes it deeper and therefore harder to get out of.  Attribution  The adage has been attributed to a number of sources. It appeared in print on page six of The Washington Post dated 25 October 1911, in the form: Nor would a wise man, seeing that he was in a hole, go to work and blindly dig it deeper... In 1983, Bill Brock was quoted Let me tell you about the law of holes: If you find yourself in a hole, stop digging. In the United Kingdom, it has been referred to as Healey's first law of holes after politician Denis Healey, who used the adage in the 1980s and later.  See also  Escalation of commitment - Human behavior pattern in which the participant takes on increasing risk Gresham's law - Monetary principle List of proverbial phrases Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel - 1939 children's book by Virginia Lee Burton Pyrrhic victory...
In electromagnetism, Gauss's law, also known as Gauss's flux theorem or sometimes Gauss's theorem, is one of Maxwell's equations. It is an application of the divergence theorem, and it relates the distribution of electric charge to the resulting electric field.  Definition  In its integral form, it states that the flux of the electric field out of an arbitrary closed surface is proportional to the electric charge enclosed by the surface, irrespective of how that charge is distributed. Even though the law alone is insufficient to determine the electric field across a surface enclosing any charge distribution, this may be possible in cases where symmetry mandates uniformity of the field. Where no such symmetry exists, Gauss's law can be used in its differential form, which states that the divergence of the electric field is proportional to the local density of charge. The law was first formulated by Joseph-Louis Lagrange in 1773, followed by Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1835, both in the context of the attraction of ellipsoids. It is one of Maxwell's equations, which forms the basis of classical electrodynamics. Gauss's law can be used to derive Coulomb's law, and vice versa.  Qualitative... 
Moore's law is the observation that the number of transistors in an integrated circuit doubles about every two years, with minimal increase in cost. Despite the name, Moore's law describes an empirical relationship, not a scientific law. This type of observation, an experience curve effect, quantifies efficiency gains from learned experience in production. The observation is named after Gordon Moore, the co-founder of Fairchild Semiconductor and Intel and former Chief Executive Officer of the latter, who in 1965 noted that the number of components per integrated circuit had been doubling every year, and projected that this rate of growth would continue for at least another decade. In 1975, looking forward to the next decade, he revised the forecast to doubling every two years, a compound annual growth rate of 41. Moore's empirical evidence did not imply that the historical trend would continue nevertheless, his prediction has held since 1975 and has since become known as a law. Moore's prediction has been used in the semiconductor industry to guide long-term planning and to set targets for research and development . Advancements in digital electronics, such as the...
From 1867 to 1974, various cities of the United States had unsightly beggar ordinances, retroactively named ugly laws. These laws targeted poor people and disabled people. For instance, in San Francisco, a law from 1867 deemed it illegal for any person, who is diseased, maimed, mutilated or deformed in any way, so as to be an unsightly or disgusting object, to expose himself or herself to public view. Exceptions to public exposure were acceptable only if the people were subjects of demonstration, to illustrate the separation of disabled from nondisabled and their need for reformation. The Charity Organization Society suggested that the best charity relief would be to investigate and counsel the people needing assistance instead of providing them with material relief. This created conflict in people between their desire to be good Christians and good citizens when seeing people in need of assistance. It was suggested that the beggars imposed guilt upon people in this way. The educator William F. Slocum wrote in 1886 that Pauperism is a disease upon the community, a sore upon the body politic, and being a disease, it must be, as far as possible, removed, and the curative purpose must...
In optics, Lambert's cosine law says that the observed radiant intensity or luminous intensity from an ideal diffusely reflecting surface or ideal diffuse radiator is directly proportional to the cosine of the angle  between the observer's line of sight and the surface normal I  I0 cos . The law is also known as the cosine emission law or Lambert's emission law. It is named after Johann Heinrich Lambert, from his Photometria, published in 1760. A surface which obeys Lambert's law is said to be Lambertian, and exhibits Lambertian reflectance. Such a surface has a constant radianceluminance, regardless of the angle from which it is observed a single human eye perceives such a surface as having a constant brightness, regardless of the angle from which the eye observes the surface. It has the same radiance because, although the emitted power from a given area element is reduced by the cosine of the emission angle, the solid angle, subtended by surface visible to the viewer, is reduced by the very same amount. Because the ratio between power and solid angle is constant, radiance power per unit solid angle per unit projected source area stays the same.  Lambertian scatterers... 
Denis Law was a Scottish footballer who played as a forward. His career as a football player began at Second Division Huddersfield Town in 1956. After four years at Huddersfield, he was signed by Manchester City for an estimated transfer fee of 55,000, which set a new British record. Law spent one year there before Torino bought him for 110,000, this time setting a new record fee for a transfer involving a British player. Although he played well in Italy, he found it difficult to settle there and signed for Manchester United in 1962, setting another British record transfer fee of 115,000. Law spent 11 years at Manchester United, where he scored 237 goals in 404 appearances. His goals tally places him third in the club's history, behind Wayne Rooney and Bobby Charlton. He was nicknamed The King and The Lawman by supporters, and Denis the Menace by opposing supporters. Law was also known as part of the United Trinity, along with Charlton and George Best. He is the only Scottish player to have won the Ballon d'Or award, doing so in 1964, and helped his club win the First Division in 1965 and 1967, as well as the FA Cup in 1963 and two Charity...
Brandon Winn Sanderson is an American author of high fantasy, science fiction, and young adult books. His best known novels include the Mistborn series and The Stormlight Archive, which are set in the Cosmere, a fictional universe. Outside of the Cosmere, he has written several young adult and juvenile series including The Reckoners, the Skyward series, and the Alcatraz series. He is also known for finishing author Robert Jordan's high fantasy series The Wheel of Time. Sanderson has created two graphic novels, White Sand and Dark One. He is credited with coining Sanderson's Laws of Magic, which popularized the idea of hard and soft magic systems. In 2008, Sanderson started a creative writing podcast with the horror writer Dan Wells and the cartoonist Howard Tayler called Writing Excuses. In mid-2022, Sanderson and Wells started another podcast, Intentionally Blank, which is focused on writing and pop culture. Sanderson's writing has received numerous nominations and awards. He has been noted for his prolific level of writing output, having written 71 books as of 2023, several of which have topped The New York Times best seller list. Sanderson's March 2022...
In logic and philosophy, laws of thought is a dated expression referring to three logical principles: the law of identity , the law of non-contradiction , and the law of excluded middle . The expression laws of thought gained prominence through its use by idealist and conceptualist logicians such as George Boole . Boole named his second logic book An Investigation of the Laws of Thought on Which are Founded the Mathematical Theories of Logic and Probabilities . Among contemporary logicians, the expression laws of thought is widely regarded as obsolete. The reasons for this can be summarized as follows: The laws have no foundational status. They are tautologies or logical truths of classical logic, but are not typically taken to be axioms, but rather theorems. No viable system of logic can be constructed in which the three laws would be the only axioms. Following the rejection of psychologism in the 19th century by some authors psychology and logic are considered to be separate disciplines. The study of how people think and reason belongs to cognitive psychology. Logic is concerned with the relationships of logical consequence...
Wolff's law, developed by the German anatomist and surgeon Julius Wolff in the 19th century, states that bone in a healthy animal will adapt to the loads under which it is placed. If loading on a particular bone increases, the bone will remodel itself over time to become stronger to resist that sort of loading. The internal architecture of the trabeculae undergoes adaptive changes, followed by secondary changes to the external cortical portion of the bone, perhaps becoming thicker as a result. The inverse is true as well: if the loading on a bone decreases, the bone will become less dense and weaker due to the lack of the stimulus required for continued remodeling. This reduction in bone density is known as stress shielding and can occur as a result of a hip replacement . The normal stress on a bone is shielded from that bone by being placed on a prosthetic implant.  Mechanotransduction  The remodeling of bone in response to loading is achieved via mechanotransduction, a process through which forces or other mechanical signals are converted to biochemical signals in cellular signaling. Mechanotransduction leading to bone remodeling...
Hy's law is a rule of thumb that a patient is at high risk of a fatal drug-induced liver injury if given a medication that causes hepatocellular injury with jaundice. The law is based on observations by Hy Zimmerman, a major scholar of drug-induced liver injury. Some have suggested the principle be called a hypothesis or observation. Hy's Law cases have three components: The drug causes hepatocellular injury, generally defined as an ALT or AST elevated 3-fold or more above the upper limit of normal, often with aminotransferases much greater than the upper limit of normal. Among subjects showing such aminotransferase elevations, they also have elevation of their serum total bilirubin of greater than 2 the upper limit of normal, without findings of cholestasis defined as serum alkaline phosphatase activity less than 2 the upper limit of normal. No other reason can be found to explain the combination of increased aminotransferase and serum total bilirubin, such as viral hepatitis, alcohol abuse, ischemia, preexisting liver disease, or another drug capable of causing the observed injury. In Zimmerman's analysis of 116 patients with hepatocellular...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 499 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Open-source software advocacy is the practice of attempting to increase the awareness and improve the perception of open-source software. In some cases, this may be in opposition to proprietary software or intellectual property concepts . Leading open-source advocates include Brian Behlendorf, Tim O'Reilly, Eric Raymond, Linus Torvalds, Mitch Kapor, Jim Jagielski and Paul Vixie. Others that advocate the related free software movement include Richard Stallman, Alan Cox, Jimmy Wales and Eben Moglen. Bruce Perens is a prominent figure who works to promote both terms. There are even broadcast and podcast radio shows whose sole subject is open source advocacy. Gutsy Geeks and Open Source are but two examples.  See also  FOSDEM Technical evangelist Category Open Source Advocates  External links   Further reading  OSI open-source advocacy reading index at the Wayback Machine Deprecated link at archive.today TrollTech: Open-Source Evangelist: Scott Collins at the Wayback Machine Eren Niazi
Open-source hardware is hardware whose design source files - schematics, CAD files, bill of materials - are made publicly available, allowing anyone to study, modify, make and distribute the hardware. Both free and open-source software and open-source hardware are created by this open-source culture movement and apply a similar concept to a variety of components. It is sometimes, thus, referred to as free and open-source hardware , meaning that the design is easily available and that it can be used, modified and shared freely . The term usually means that information about the hardware is easily discerned so that others can make it - coupling it closely to the maker movement. Hardware design i.e. mechanical drawings, schematics, bills of material, PCB layout data, HDL source code and integrated circuit layout data, in addition to the software that drives the hardware, are all released under freelibre terms. The original sharer gains feedback and potentially improvements on the design from the FOSH community. There is now significant evidence that such sharing can drive a high return on investment for the scientific community. It is not enough...
The open-design movement involves the development of physical products, machines and systems through use of publicly shared design information. This includes the making of both free and open-source software as well as open-source hardware. The process is generally facilitated by the Internet and often performed without monetary compensation. The goals and philosophy of the movement are identical to that of the open-source movement, but are implemented for the development of physical products rather than software. Open design is a form of co-creation, where the final product is designed by the users, rather than an external stakeholder such as a private company.  History  Sharing of manufacturing information can be traced back to the 18th and 19th century. Aggressive patenting put an end to that period of extensive knowledge sharing. More recently, principles of open design have been related to the free and open-source software movements. In 1997 Eric S. Raymond, Tim O'Reilly and Larry Augustin established open source as an alternative expression to free software, and in 1997 Bruce Perens published The Open Source Definition. In late 1998, Dr. Sepehr Kiani a PhD in mechanical...
This list is divided into proprietary or free software, and open source software, with several comparison tables of different product and vendor characteristics. It also includes a section of project collaboration software, which is a standard feature in collaboration platforms.  General  Systems listed on a light purple background are no longer in active development.  General Information   Comparison of unified communications features   Comparison of collaborative software features   Comparison of targets   Open source software  The following are open source applications for collaboration:  Standard client-server software  Access Grid, for audio and video-based collaboration Axigen CitadelU, with support for native groupware clients Kontact, Novell Evolution, Microsoft Outlook and web interface Cyn.in EGroupware, with support for native groupware clients Kontact, Novell Evolution, Microsoft Outlook and web interface GroupOffice groupware and CRM Kolab, various native PIM clients Kopano OpenGroupware.org phpGroupWare Scalix SOGo, integrated email, calendaring with Apple iCal, Mozilla Thunderbird and native Outlook compatibility Zarafa Zentyal, with...
A permissive software license, sometimes also called BSD-like or BSD-style license, is a free-software license which instead of copyleft protections, carries only minimal requirements on how the software can be used, modified, and redistributed, usually including a warranty disclaimer. Examples include the GNU All-permissive License, MIT License, BSD licenses, Apple Public Source License and Apache license. As of 2016, the most popular free-software license is the permissive MIT license.  Comparison table   Example  The following is the full text of the simple GNU All-permissive License: Copyright YEAR, AUTHORSCopying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty, provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any warranty.  Definitions  The Open Source Initiative defines a permissive software license as a non-copyleft license that guarantees the freedoms to use, modify and redistribute. GitHub's choosealicense website describes the permissive MIT license as  people do anything they want with your code as long as they provide attribution back to you...
Open-source artificial intelligence, as defined by the Open Source Initiative, is an AI system that is freely available to use, study, modify, and share. This includes datasets used to train the model, its code, and its model parameters, promoting a collaborative and transparent approach to AI development so someone could create a substantially similar result. The debate over what should count as 'open-source' given a range of openness among AI projects has been significant. Some large language models touted as open-sourced that are merely open weights and do not release training data and code have been criticized as openwashing systems that are mostly closed. For example, Artificial Analysis gives an Openness Index of 83 to Nvidia's Nemotron family, for its greater transparency in methodology, pre-training data, and post-training data, while China's frontier open weights models broadly score under 50. Open-source AI is a major issue in geopolitics and artificial intelligence controversies, sometimes characterized as an AI arms race or AI Cold War between the US and China. Broadly, models released by Chinese companies, such as DeepSeek, Alibaba Cloud, Moonshot AI and Z.ai, use...
The following is a list of notable computer simulation software.  Free or open-source  Advanced Simulation Library - open-source hardware accelerated multiphysics simulation software. ASCEND - open-source equation-based modelling environment. Blender - 3D creation suite with support for modeling, animation, simulation, and rendering. Cantera - chemical kinetics package. Celestia - a 3D astronomy program. CP2K - Open-source ab-initio molecular dynamics program. DWSIM - an open-source CAPE-OPEN compliant chemical process simulator. EFDC Explorer - open-source for processing of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Code . Elmer - an open-source multiphysical simulation software for WindowsMacLinux. FlightGear - a free, open-source atmospheric and orbital flight simulator with a flight dynamics engine that is used in a 2015 NASA benchmark to judge new simulation code to space industry standards. FreeFem - Free, open-source, multiphysics Finite Element Analysis software. Freemat - a free environment for rapid engineering, scientific prototyping and data processing using the same language as MATLAB and GNU Octave. Gekko - simulation software in Python with machine...
The Curtiss YP-20 was an American biplane fighter project developed by Curtiss for the United States Army Air Service.  Design and development  In 1929, three Curtiss P-11 Hawks were ordered with 600 hp Curtiss H-1640 Chieftain engines. These proved a failure, and before completion, the third was converted to use a 9-cylinder 575 hp Wright Cyclone, being completed as the YP-20. Testing with the R1820 was prolonged, so the Army's intention to promptly switch to a Curtiss V-1570 Conqueror engine and redesignate the aircraft P-22 was dropped another P-11 was chosen for that instead. Except for the engine change and its Townend ring cowling, the YP-20 was not drastically different from the P-6 from which both it and the P-11 derived, though the YP-20 had more fin and less rudder area, and featured a steerable tailwheel, rather than the original skid. Later, a crankcase cover, gear strut fairings, and wheel pants were added. In June 1931, the AAC held a competition to evaluate the P-6, P-12, P-22, and YP-20. The P-22 came out the winner, but the YP-20 was given a nose and landing gear graft from the P-22, becoming the P-6E . With the addition of...
Madeline Harper may be the best-known joint pen name of the American writing team Madeline Porter and Shannon Harper. They wrote together from 1977, when their first book, a Gothic romance, was published as by Elizabeth Habersham, to 1997. They also wrote together under the name Anna James.  Biography  Madeline Porter lives in Newport Beach, California, where she is assistant publicity director for the award-winning South Coast Repertory Theater. Shannon Harper lives in Winter Haven, Florida. During their partnership, Madeline and Shannon have lived on opposite coasts of U.S., and they collaborated via the mail, fax machines and their computers.  Awards   As Anna James  The Day Beyond Destiny: 1982 Rita Awards Golden Medallion for Mainstream Historical Romance  Books written by Porter and Harper   References   External links  Madeline Harper at Fantastic Fiction Anna James at Fantastic Fiction
Malcom Glenn born February 6, 1987, in Denver, Colorado is an American writer and speaker and was The President of Harvard Crimson, the daily student newspaper of Harvard University, in 2008. He made national news as the first African American president of The Crimson in over a half-century. Upon his election in November 2007, Glenn was featured in numerous publications, including The Denver Post, Essence Magazine, and The New York Observer.  Early life  Glenn was born and raised in Denver, Colorado. He attended Thomas Jefferson High School, where he was editor-in-chief of the school newspaper, The Jefferson Journal. Glenn graduated from Harvard College in June 2009.  Recent work  Glenn is currently Executive Director of the Seismic Foundation, a nonprofit that helps organizations lead communications and marketing campaigns to help educate the public on the importance of safe and responsible regulation of artificial intelligence. He previously worked at Uber in Washington D.C., where he focused on building strategic partnerships with community and nonprofit organizations. He also formerly worked in executive communications at Google, at an education advocacy organization in...
Secrets of Haunted House was a horror-suspense comics anthology series published by American company DC Comics from 1975 to 1978 and 1979 to 1982.  Publication history  The series began in April-May 1975. Like its predecessor Secrets of Sinister House, Secrets of Haunted House was originally hosted by Cain, Abel, Eve, and Destiny who had moved over from Weird Mystery Tales. By issue 10 , Destiny was the only one of these who remained a regular. In issue 40 , Abel returned with no further mention of Destiny. A Secrets of Haunted House Special was published in 1978 as part of the DC Special Series umbrella title. Secrets of Haunted House was a temporary victim of the so-called DC Implosion. With issue 14 , it was cancelled but revived a year later with issue 15 . The title continued until issue 46 . The Mister E character was introduced in issue 31 by writer Bob Rozakis and artist Dan Spiegle and became a recurring character for the next ten issues. The final Mister E story appeared in issue 41 . The series' letter column was titled The Haunted Mailbox.  Collected editions... 
Rajeev Motwani Hindi:   , 24 March 1962 - 5 June 2009 was an Indian-American professor of computer science at Stanford University whose research focused on theoretical computer science. He was a special advisor to Sequoia Capital. He was a winner of the Gdel Prize in 2001.  Early life and education  Rajeev Motwani was born in Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir, India, on 24 March 1962, and grew up in New Delhi. His father was in the Indian Army. He had two brothers. As a child, inspired by luminaries like Gauss, he wanted to become a mathematician. Motwani went to St Columba's School, New Delhi. He completed his B.Tech. in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh in 1983 and got his Ph.D. in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley in Berkeley, California, United States in 1988, under the supervision of Richard M. Karp.  Career  Motwani joined Stanford soon after U.C. Berkeley. He founded the Mining Data at Stanford project , an umbrella organization for several groups looking into new and innovative data management concepts. His research included data privacy, web search, robotics, and computational...
The 1995-96 season was Tottenham Hotspur's 114th season in their history, 18th successive season in the top flight of English football and the 4th season in the FA Premier League. In addition to the domestic league, the club also participated in that season's FA Cup and League Cup.  Season summary  The sale of key players Jrgen Klinsmann, Gheorghe Popescu and Nick Barmby weakened Tottenham's resources for 1995-96, and manager Gerry Francis was faced with taunts of what a waste of money from shocked supporters when he paid a club record 4.5million for Crystal Palace striker Chris Armstrong. But Armstrong quickly formed an effective strikeforce with Teddy Sheringham, and an eighth-place finish in the final table was only one place lower than last season's final position - though it was once again not quite enough for a UEFA Cup place. Perhaps the best moment of the season came on New Year's Day when Spurs triumphed 4-1 at home to Manchester United, dealing a serious blow to the visiting side's title hopes and boosting their own hopes of qualifying for the UEFA Cup as they muscled in on the top five. While Spurs failed to live up to the promise that the game delivered, the losing...
Barlen may refer to: Bob Barlen , Canadian screenwriter and producer Barlen Pyamootoo , Mauritian filmmaker and writer Barlen Vyapoory , Mauritian politician and diplomat who served as the fifth Vice President of Mauritius Arthur, Ann, and Det. Bill Barlen, characters in 1970 American sexploitation film The Amazing Transplant
Fachtna Fthach , son of Cas , son of Rudraige, was, according to medieval Irish legend and historical tradition, a High King of Ireland. He came to power when he defeated the previous High King, Dui Dallta Dedad, in the battle of rd Brestine. According to some stories, he was the lover of Ness, daughter of Eochaid Slbuide, king of Ulster, and the father of her son, Conchobar mac Nessa, the king of Ulster in the stories of the Ulster Cycle. After he had reigned for sixteen or twenty-five years, he paid a visit to Ulster. While he was there, Eochu Feidlech, king of Connacht, raised an army and marched on Tara. With the support of the Ulstermen, Fachtna challenged him to battle. Eochu agreed, and named the battlefield as Leitir Ruad in the Corann, Connacht. During the battle, Eochu surrounded and beheaded Fachtna, and became High King in his place.  Time frame  The Lebor Gabla renn synchronises Fachtna's reign with the Roman civil war between Caesar and Pompey and the reign of Cleopatra . The chronology of Geoffrey Keating's Foras Feasa ar irinn dates his reign to 110-94 BC, that of the Annals of the Four Masters to 159-143 BC  Issue... 
Following the 2018 Lebanese parliamentary elections, the first held in the country since 2009, 128 candidates were elected to the Lebanese Parliament for a duration of four years. Per the Lebanese Constitution half of these MPs are Christian and half are Muslim with proportional representation among the different confessions within each religion: 34 Maronites, 27 Sunni, 27 Shia, 14 Greek Orthodox, 8 Greek Catholics, 8 Druze, 5 Armenian Orthodox, 2 Alawites, 1 Armenian Catholic, 1 Protestant and 1 member representing the 12 Christian minorities.  See also  List of members of the 2022-2026 Lebanese Parliament 2018 Lebanese general election Members of the 2005-2009 Lebanese Parliament List of members of the 2009-2017 Lebanese Parliament  References 
The Competition may refer to: The Competition , a 1980 film starring Richard Dreyfuss The Competition , a 2018 film starring Thora Birch The Competition , a 1999 television episode The Competition , a 1985 television episode The Competition , a 2002 television episode  See also  Competition
HMS Starling was launched in 1805. She participated in one action and captured a privateer and a number of merchant vessels before she was sold in 1814.  Career  Although Admiralty records imply that Starling was launched in May, she was in action already in April. Early in the morning of 24 April 1805, HMS Leda, Captain Robert Honyman , sighted twenty-six French vessels rounding Cap Gris Nez. Honyman immediately ordered the vessels of his squadron, Fury, Harpy, Railleur, Bruiser, Gallant, Archer, Locust, Tickler, Watchful, Monkey, Firm, and Starling, to intercept. After a fight of about two hours, Starling and Locust had captured seven armed schuyts in an action within pistol-shot of the shore batteries on Cap Gris Nez. The schuyts were all of 25 to 28 tons burthen, and carried in all 117 soldiers and 43 seamen under the command of officers from the 51st. Infantry Regiment. The French convoy had been bound for Ambleteuse from Dunkirk. On the British side the only casualty was one man wounded on Archer. The seven captured schyuts were: Schuyt No. 52, under the command of a Sub-Lieutenant of Infantry Loriol, armed with three 24-pounders Schuyt No. 48, under the command...
Lieutenant General Ivan Bartholomew Leonard Jones, is a retired senior British Army officer.  Military career  Jones was commissioned into the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers on 7 September 1986 and transferred to the Royal Engineers on 26 October 1988. He was appointed commanding officer of 26 Engineer Regiment and, in that role, saw active service in Afghanistan in 2007, for he received the Queen's Commendation for Valuable Service in 2008. Jones became Commander 8th Force Engineer Brigade in October 2011, Chief of Joint Force Operations from September 2013 and Chief of Staff, Field Army in November 2015. That month, Jones was appointed as Colonel Commandant of the Royal Engineers, and held the position until 1 November 2020. Jones went on to be Director-General, Army Personnel in May 2018, was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 2018 Birthday Honours, and became Commander Field Army, with the substantive rank of lieutenant general, on 20 March 2019. He retired from the army in April 2021 and was succeeded by Lieutenant General Ralph Wooddisse as Commander Field Army. He was Honorary Colonel of the Engineer and Logistic Staff...
The following is a list of National Women's Soccer League draftees by college soccer team. Composed of four rounds, the NWSL Draft was a mechanism by which NWSL franchises are able to select college athletes from the NCAA and the NAIA who are in their senior season in college or have exhausted their collegiate eligibility. In total, 12 NWSL college drafts were held from the 2013 NWSL College Draft until the final 2024 NWSL Draft. In August 2024, the draft was abolished as part of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement. The NWSL became the first major professional sports league in the United States to eliminate the draft system. In total there were 490 players from 101 different schools selected in the NWSL College Draft. The North Carolina Tar Heels hold the all-time record for most players drafted with 27 players. 26 schools have had only one player selected. The most selections from one college team in a single draft is six, achieved three times: by the UCLA Bruins in 2015, Duke Blue Devils in 2018 and North Carolina Tar Heels in 2024. The Virginia Cavaliers and Stanford Cardinal remain the only teams to have players drafted in all 12 NWSL...
Zoltn Szab may refer to: Zoltn Szab , floristics, plant systematics, plant physiology Zoltn Szab , Hungarian mathematician and professor at Princeton University Zoltn Szab , Hungarian politician and Minister of Defence of Hungary Zoltn Szab , Hungarian cardiac surgeon Zoltan Sabo , Serbian-born Hungarian football manager and retired player Zoltn Szab , Hungarian football player Zoltn Szab , Hungarian serial killer
Susanabad Persian:  , romanized: Ssanbd Syriac: Ssnw is a village in Margavar Rural District, Silvaneh District, Urmia County, West Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 684, in 103 families.  History  Ssnw was inhabited by 7 Church of the East Christian families and did not have a church in 1877, as per Edward Lewes Cutts. It was located in the Tergwr district.  References   Bibliography  Wilmshurst, David . The Ecclesiastical Organisation of the Church of the East, 1318-1913 . Peeters Publishers. Retrieved 30 October 2024.
V Crucis is a carbon star in the constellation Crux. A Mira variable, its apparent magnitude ranges from 8.7 to 11.1 over 376.5 days. The fact that this star's period is nearly equal to one year makes it hard to get good observational coverage over the entire cycle. Its near-infrared light curve shows a contribution from the first harmonic of the fundamental period.  References 
Elodie Di Patrizi , known professionally as simply Elodie , is an Italian singer-songwriter and actress. She first rose to prominence as the runner-up of the fifteenth edition of the show Amici di Maria De Filippi . Since 2015, she has released five studio albums, each of which entered the top ten of the Italian albums chart, as well as numerous successful singles. She has collaborated with Italian artists such as Emma, Elisa, Giorgia, Roshelle, Michele Bravi, Gu, Fabri Fibra, Mahmood, The Kolors, Rkomi and Marracash. She has sold over four million copies in Italy, as certified by FIMI, and earned three MTV Europe Music Award for Best Italian Act nomination. She has also participated at the Sanremo Music Festival four times with Tutta colpa mia , Andromeda , Due and Dimenticarsi alle 7 . In 2022, Elodie made her acting debut, in the leading role of the Italian drama film Burning Hearts, which premiered at the 79th Venice International Film Festival, winning a number of awards, including a Bifst Award and the WiCa at Rome Film Festival. She also performed the original song Proiettili ti mangio il cuore...
Grey literature is material and research produced by organizations outside of the traditional commercial or academic publishing and distribution channels. Common grey literature publication types include reports annual, research, technical, project, etc., working papers, blog posts, government documents, white papers and evaluations. Organizations that produce grey literature include government departments and agencies, civil society or non-governmental organizations, academic centres and departments, and private companies and consultants. Grey literature may be difficult to discover, access and evaluate, but this can be addressed through the formulation of sound search strategies. Grey literature may be made available to the public or distributed privately within organizations or groups, and may lack a systematic means of distribution and collection. The standard of quality, review, and production of grey literature can vary considerably. Although the concept is difficult to define, the term grey literature is an agreed collective term that researchers and information professionals can use to discuss this distinct but disparate group of resources. Other terms...
Occitan literature referred to in older texts as Provenal literature is a body of texts written in Occitan, mostly in the south of France. It was the first literature written in a Romance language and inspired the rise of vernacular literature throughout medieval Europe. Occitan literature's Golden Age was in the 12th century, when a rich and complex body of lyrical poetry was produced by troubadours writing in Old Occitan, which still survives to this day. Although Catalan is considered by some a variety of Occitan, this article will not deal with Catalan literature, which started diverging from its Southern French counterpart in the late 13th century.  Introduction  Occitan literature started in the 11th century in several centres. It gradually spread first over the greater portion of southern France, into what is now the north of Italy and into Spain , and Portugal. In its rise, Occitan literature stands completely by itself, and in its development, it long continued to be highly original. It presents at several points, analogies with French literature but these analogies are due principally to certain primary elements...
The Sangam literature , historically known as the Poetry of the Noble Ones , connotes the early classical Tamil literature and is the earliest known literature of South India. The Tamil tradition and legends link it to three legendary literary gatherings around Madurai and Kapapuram: the first lasted over 4,440 years, the second over 3,700 years, and the third over 1,850 years. Scholars consider this Tamil tradition-based chronology as ahistorical and mythical. Most scholars suggest the historical Sangam literature era, also called the Sangam period, spanned from c. 300 BCE to 300 CE, while others variously place this early classical Tamil literature period a bit later and more narrowly but all before 300 CE. According to Kamil Zvelebil, a Tamil literature and history scholar, the most acceptable range for the Sangam literature is 100 BCE to 250 CE, based on the linguistic, prosodic and quasi-historic allusions within the texts and the colophons. and recent archaeological interpretations, particularly from the Keeladi excavations, have suggested an earlier date of around 600 BCE, however, this proposal...
Japanese literature throughout most of its history has been influenced by cultural contact with neighboring Asian literatures, most notably China and its literature. Early texts were often written in pure Classical Chinese or kanbun , a style of Classical Chinese influenced by Japanese. Indian literature also had an influence through the spread of Buddhism in Japan. During the Heian period, Japan's original kokuf culture developed and literature also established its own style, with the significant usage and development of kana to write Japanese literature. Following the end of the sakoku policy and especially during the increasing westernization of the Meiji era, Western literature has also had an influence on the development of modern Japanese writers, while Japanese literature has in turn become more recognized internationally, leading to two Japanese Nobel laureates in literature, namely Yasunari Kawabata and Kenzabur e.  History   Nara-period literature  Before the introduction of kanji from China to Japan, Japan had no writing system it is believed that Chinese characters came to Japan at the very...
Dalit literature is a genre of Indian writing that focuses on the lives, experiences, and struggles of the Dalit community over centuries, in relation to the caste system and caste-based discrimination. This literary genre encompasses various Indian languages such as Bhojpuri, Marathi, Bangla, Hindi, Kannada, Punjabi, Sindhi, Odia and Tamil and includes narrative-styles like poems, short stories, and autobiographies. The movement started gaining influence during the mid-twentieth-century in independent India and has since spread across various Indian languages. In the colonial and post-colonial period, Jyotirao Phule's Gulamgiri, published in 1873, became a seminal work describing the plight of the Untouchables in India. Authors such as Sharankumar Limbale, Namdeo Dhasal, and Bama, and movements like the Dalit Panther movement in Maharashtra as well as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, a jurist, economist and social reformer, have played influential roles in shaping Dalit literature across India. Dalit feminist writing such as the autobiographies and testimonios of Dalit women authors emphasizing the intersection of caste, class, and gender in the context of social exclusion came through this movement...
Because modern Belgium is a multilingual country, Belgian literature is often treated as a branch of French literature or Dutch literature. Some writing also exists in the regional languages of Belgium, with published works in both the Walloon language, closely related to French, and also in various regional Flemish or Dutch-related dialects. German is the third official language in Belgium and is spoken by a small community of about 70,000 German-speakers of the German-speaking Community of Belgium in the border region Eupen-Malmedy. See de:BelgischeLiteraturDiedeutscheLiteraturinBelgien.  DutchFlemish writers  Hendrik Conscience , author of The Lion of Flanders Guido Gezelle , noted for his use of West Flemish dialect Cyriel Buysse Willem Elsschot pseudonym of Alphonsus Josephus de Ridder, 1882 - 1960 Marnix Gijsen pen name of Joannes Alphonsius Albertus Goris, 1899 - 1984 Louis Paul Boon Hugo Claus Jef Geeraerts Eric de Kuyper Herman de Coninck poet Herman Brusselmans Tom Lanoye Erwin Mortier Dimitri Verhulst born...
Frisian literature is works written in the Frisian languages, including that of West Frisian spoken in the province of Friesland in the Netherlands, from which most texts were produced or have survived. The first texts written in Frisian emerge around the 13th century.  Medieval and early modern periods  Texts written in Frisian first appear in manuscripts from the late medieval period. Records of these, however, are fairly scarce and would generally not constitute literature, even if they did show some poetic merit. In 1498, Dutch became the official language in Friesland for all purposes of writing but Frisian would survive as a spoken language among the common people. Through the Renaissance, some authors would consciously attempt to preserve their language in short written works. Middle Frisian would generally be considered to begin around this time in the mid-16th century. The greatest impact came from the seventeenth-century schoolteacher from Bolsward, Gysbert Japiks, whose poetry attempted to prove Frisian's worth as a written language and brought about a revival amongst other Frisian authors in appreciating their native language, an appreciation that had slowed by the...
Libyan literature has its roots in Antiquity, but contemporary Libyan writing draws on a variety of influences. The Arab Renaissance of the late 19th and early 20th centuries did not reach Libya as early as other Arab lands, and Libyans contributed little to its initial development. However, Libya at this time developed its own literary tradition, centred on oral poetry, much of which expressed the suffering brought about by the Italian colonial period. Most of Libya's early literature was written in the east, in the cities of Benghazi and Derna: particularly Benghazi, because of its importance as an early Libyan capital and influence of the universities present there. They were also the urban areas closest to Cairo and Alexandria - uncontested areas of Arab culture at the time. Even today, most writers - despite being spread throughout the country, trace their inspiration to eastern, rather than western Libya. Libyan literature has historically been very politicized. The Libyan literary movement can be traced to the Italian occupation of the early 20th century. Sulaiman al-Barouni, an important figure of the Libyan resistance to the Italian occupation, wrote the first book...
Incest is an important thematic element and plot device in literature, with famous early examples such as Sophocles' classic Oedipus Rex, a tragedy in which the title character unwittingly kills his father and marries his mother. It occurs in medieval literature, both explicitly, as related by denizens of Hell in Dante's Inferno, and winkingly, as between Pandarus and Criseyde in Chaucer's Troilus. The Marquis de Sade was famously fascinated with perverse sex acts such as incest, which recurs frequently in his works, The 120 Days of Sodom , Philosophy in the Bedroom , and Juliette .  Modern literature  Vladimir Nabokov's novel Ada or Ardor: A Family Chronicle deals very heavily with the incestuous relationships in the intricate family tree of the main character, Van Veen. Ernesto Sbato's On Heroes and Tombs explores, among other subjects, the romantic relationship between a man and his daughter. In his novel Hogg, written in 1969, Samuel R. Delany employed incest as a way to push the boundaries of heteronormative sex. Toni Morrison's debut novel The Bluest Eye tells the story of Pecola, a young girl raped by her father. The Cement Garden 1978...
Bah literature includes the books, letters, and recorded public talks of the Bah Faith's founders, the clarifying letters of Shoghi Effendi, the elucidations of the Universal House of Justice, and a variety of commentary and history published by Bah authors. The Faith's scriptural texts are the writings of the Bb, Bahu'llh, and Abdu'l-Bah, written in Arabic or Persian in the late 19th and early 20th century Middle East. The religion's most prominent doctrinal foundation comes from the Kitb-i-qn , a work composed by Bahu'llh in 1861. Later in 1873, he wrote the Kitb-i-Aqdas , which is the central text of the Bah Faith. Some Answered Questions is a compilation of table talks between Abdu'l-Bah and a western pilgrim that was recorded in the original Persian language. From 1910-13, Abdu'l-Bah traveled through Europe and North America giving many public talks that were recorded by stenographers and published under the titles Paris Talks and The Promulgation of Universal Peace. The writings of the Bb and Bahu'llh are regarded as divine revelation, superseding but not in conflict with the Qur'an, Bible, and other major...
Hindi literature Hindi:  , romanized: hind shitya includes literature in the various Central Indo-Aryan languages, also known as Hindi, some of which have different writing systems. Earliest forms of Hindi literature are attested in poetry of Apabhraa such as Awadhi. Hindi literature is composed in three broad styles- prose , poetry , and prosimetrum . Inspired by Bengali literature, Bharatendu Harishchandra started the modern Hindi literary practices. In terms of historical development, it is broadly classified into five prominent forms based on the date of production. They are: di Kl Vr-Gth Kl , prior to  including 14th century CE Bhakti Kl , 14th-18th century CE Rti Kl gr Kl , 18th-20th century CE dhunik Kl , from 1850 CE onwards Navyottar Kl Hindi:  , lit. 'post-modern literature', from 1980 CE onwards The literature was produced in languages and dialects such as Khariboli, Braj, Bundeli, Awadhi, Kannauji, as well as Chhattisgarhi. From the 20th century, works produced in Modern Standard Hindi...
Indian literature refers to the literature produced on the Indian subcontinent until 1947 and in the Republic of India thereafter. The Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of India has 22 officially recognised languages. Sahitya Akademi, India's highest literary body, also has 24 recognised literary languages. The earliest works of Indian literature were orally transmitted. Sanskrit literature begins with the oral literature of the Rig Veda, a collection of literature dating to the period 1500-1200 BCE. The Sanskrit epics Ramayana and Mahabharata were subsequently codified and appeared towards the end of the 2nd millennium BCE. Classical Sanskrit literature developed rapidly during the first few centuries of the first millennium BCE, as did the Pli Canon and Tamil Sangam literature. Ancient Meitei appeared in the 1st century CE with sacred musical compositions like the Ougri, and heroic narratives like the Numit Kappa. In the medieval period, literature in Kannada and Telugu appeared in the 9th and 10th centuries, respectively. Later, literature in Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Assamese, Odia, and Maithili appeared. Thereafter literature in various dialects of Hindi, Persian and Urdu...
Latvian literature began to develop in the 18th century. Latvian secular literature began with Gotthard Friedrich Stender who produced didactic tales or idyllic portrayals of country life.  Early Latvian literature  Before there was a written Latvian language, traditions were passed along in folk songs that are still preserved. Poetry and prose was written on a small scale in the 18th century, most notably by Gotthard Friedrich Stender. But Latvian literature began in earnest in the nineteenth century. Juris Alunans tried to show that deep and noble feelings could also be expressed in Latvian, which the Baltic-German Barons regarded as a peasant tongue. Alunans' volume of poetry was published in 1856, the same year as Charles Baudelaire's Les Fleurs du Mal, the starting point of European modernism in poetry. The national epic, Lplsis, published in 1888 was written by Andrejs Pumpurs. In the beginning of the 20th century, mainly through the many German and Russian connections, Latvian literature had diverging movements of symbolism, decadence, and politically - socialism, Marxism, these movements went underground after the defeat of the largest national Latvian uprising the 1905...
The genre of travel literature or travelogue encompasses outdoor literature, guide books, nature writing, and travel memoirs. Throughout history, many authors have contributed works to this genre through different forms of writing: poems, books, memoirs, biographies, novels, journals, online blogs, etc. Knowledge on key historic events, like slavery in the United States, have been expanded on through publishing and discoveries of personal travel accounts and literature. Authors native to a location or visiting from abroad make contributions to the local tourism through travel literature. Some travel literature is fictional adventures influenced by the author's personal experiences, while others, like guidebooks, only contain factual information about a given location. Historically, most travel narratives and guides were printed text, but in more modern years, many examples of travel literature can be found on the internet as travel blogs and informational websites.  History  Early examples of travel literature include the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea generally considered a 1st-century CE work authorship is debated, Pausanias' Description of Greece in the 2nd century CE, Safarnama...
Oral literature, orature, or folk literature is a genre of literature that is spoken or sung in contrast to that which is written, though much oral literature has been transcribed. There is no standard definition, as anthropologists have used varying descriptions for oral literature or folk literature. A broad conceptualization refers to it as literature characterized by oral transmission and the absence of any fixed form. It includes the stories, legends, and history passed through generations in a spoken form.  Background  Pre-literate societies, by definition, have no written literature, but may possess rich and varied oral traditions-such as folk epics, folk narratives , folk drama, proverbs and folksongs-that effectively constitute an oral literature. Even when these are collected and published by scholars such as folklorists and paremiographers, the result is still often referred to as oral literature. The different genres of oral literature pose classification challenges to scholars because of cultural dynamism in the modern digital age. Literate societies may continue an oral tradition - particularly within the family for example bedtime...
American literature is literature written or produced in the United States and in the British colonies that preceded it. The American literary tradition is part of the broader tradition of English-language literature, but also includes literature produced in languages other than English. The American Revolution period is notable for the political writings of Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Paine, and Thomas Jefferson. An early novel is William Hill Brown's The Power of Sympathy, published in 1791. The writer and critic John Neal in the early-to-mid-19th century helped to advance America toward a unique literature and culture, by criticizing his predecessors, such as Washington Irving, for imitating their British counterparts and by influencing writers such as Edgar Allan Poe, who took American poetry and short fiction in new directions. Ralph Waldo Emerson pioneered the influential Transcendentalism movement Henry David Thoreau, the author of Walden, was influenced by this movement. The conflict surrounding abolitionism inspired writers, like Harriet Beecher Stowe, and authors of slave narratives, such as Frederick Douglass. Nathaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter 1850...
Up to the second half of the 20th century, Tanzanian literature was primarily oral. Major oral literary forms include folktales, poems, riddles, proverbs, and songs. The majority of the oral literature in Tanzania that has been recorded is in Swahili, though each of the country's languages has its own oral tradition. The country's oral literature is currently declining because of social changes that make transmission of oral literature more difficult and because of the devaluation of oral literature that has accompanied Tanzania's development. Tanzania's written literary tradition has produced relatively few writers and works Tanzania does not have a strong reading culture, and books are often expensive and hard to come by. Most Tanzanian literature is orally performed or written in Swahili, and a smaller number of works have been published in English. Major figures in Tanzanian modern literature include Shaaban Robert, Muhammed Said Abdulla, Aniceti Kitereza, Ebrahim Hussein, Abdulrazak Gurnah, and Penina Muhando.  Literature in Swahili and other languages  One of the most prominent Swahili writers in Tanzania was Shaaban Robert , a poet, novelist and essayist. His...
Epiphany in literature refers generally to a visionary moment when a character has a sudden insight or realization that changes their understanding of themselves or their comprehension of the world. The term has a more specialized sense as a literary device distinct to modernist fiction. Author James Joyce first borrowed the Christian term Epiphany and adopted it into a profane literary context in Stephen Hero , an early version of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. In that manuscript, Stephen Daedalus defines epiphany as a sudden spiritual manifestation, whether in the vulgarity of speech or of gesture or in a memorable phase of the mind itself. Stephen's epiphanies are moments of heightened poetic perception in the trivial aspects of everyday Dublin life. They become the basis of Stephen's theory of aesthetic perception as well as his writing. In similar terms, Joyce experimented with epiphany throughout his career, from the short stories he wrote between 1898 and 1904 which were central to his early work, to his late novel Finnegans Wake . Scholars used Joyce's term to describe a common feature of the modernist novel, with authors as varied as Virginia...
Arabic literature Arabic:    ALA-LC: al-Adab al-'Arab is the writing, both as prose and poetry, produced by writers in the Arabic language. The Arabic word used for literature is Adab, which comes from a meaning of etiquette, and which implies politeness, culture and enrichment. Arabic literature, primarily transmitted orally, began to be documented in written form in the 7th century, with only fragments of written Arabic appearing before then. The Qur'an would have the greatest lasting effect on Arab culture and its literature. Arabic literature flourished during the Islamic Golden Age, but has remained vibrant to the present day, with poets and prose-writers across the Arab world, as well as in the Arab diaspora, achieving increasing success. Based on the important number of surviving Islamic manuscripts, with a large part of them being in Arabic, Dutch Arabist Jan Just Witkam has argued that Arabic traditional literature is probably the largest body of literature in the world.  History   Pre-Islamic poetry  Pre-Islamic Arabic poetry is referred to in traditional Arabic literature as al-shir al-Jhil, poetry from the Jahiliyyah. In pre-Islamic Arabia...
Postmodern literature is a genre of literature characterized by the use of metafiction, unreliable narration, self-reference, and intertextuality literature building upon or reimagining other literature, and which often presents both historical and political themes. As a style of experimental literature, it emerged strongly in the United States in the 1960s through the writings of authors such as Kurt Vonnegut, Thomas Pynchon, William Gaddis, Philip K. Dick, Kathy Acker, and John Barth. Beginning within or alongside the counterculture of the 1960s, postmodernists often challenge authorities and the status quo. This inspiration is, among other things, seen through how postmodern literature is highly self-reflexive about the political issues it speaks to. Precursors to postmodern literature include Miguel de Cervantes' Don Quixote , Laurence Sterne's Tristram Shandy , James Hogg's Private Memoires and Confessions of a Justified Sinner , Thomas Carlyle's Sartor Resartus , and Jack Kerouac's On the Road , but postmodern literature was particularly prominent in the 1960s and 1970s. In the 21st century, American literature still features a strong...
Invasion literature also the invasion novel, invasion fiction or the future war genre is a literary genre that was popular in the period between 1871 and the First World War . The invasion novel was first recognised as a literary genre in the UK, with the novella The Battle of Dorking: Reminiscences of a Volunteer , an account of a German invasion of England, which, in the Western world, aroused the national imaginations and anxieties about hypothetical invasions by foreign powers. By 1914 the genre of invasion literature comprised over 400 novels and stories. The genre was influential in Britain in shaping politics, national policies, and popular perceptions in the years leading up to the First World War, and remains a part of popular culture to this day. Several of the books were written by or ghostwritten for military officers and experts of the day who believed that the nation would be saved if the particular tactic that they favoured was or would be adopted.  Pre-Dorking  Nearly a century before the invasion genre became widespread after the publication of The Battle of Dorking in 1871, a mini-boom of invasion stories appeared soon after the French developed...
Fantasy literature is literature set in an imaginary universe, often but not always without any locations, events, or people from the real world. Magic, the supernatural and magical creatures are common in many of these imaginary worlds. Fantasy literature may be directed at both children and adults. Fantasy is considered a genre of speculative fiction and is distinguished from the genres of science fiction and horror by the absence of scientific or macabre themes, respectively, though these may overlap. Historically, most works of fantasy were in written form, but since the 1960s, a growing segment of the genre has taken the form of fantasy films, fantasy television programs, graphic novels, video games, music and art. Many fantasy novels originally written for children and adolescents also attract an adult audience. Examples include Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, the Harry Potter series, The Chronicles of Narnia, and The Hobbit.  History   Beginnings  Stories involving magic and terrible monsters have existed in spoken forms before the advent of printed literature. Classical mythology is replete with fantastical stories and characters, the best known and perhaps the most...
Algerian literature has been influenced by many cultures, including the ancient Romans, Arabs, French, Spanish, and Berbers. The dominant languages in Algerian literature are French and Arabic. Modern notable Algerian writers include Kateb Yacine, Rachid Mimouni, Mouloud Mammeri, Mouloud Feraoun, Assia Djebar and Mohammed Dib. Since 1956, more than 100 novels, memoirs and poetry collections authored have been translated into English.  History  The historical roots of Algerian literature trace back to the Numidian era, when Apuleius wrote The Golden Ass, the only Latin novel to survive in its entirety. Augustine of Hippo, Nonius Marcellus and Martianus Capella, among others, also wrote in this period. The Middle Ages also saw many Arabic writers revolutionize the Arab world literature with authors like Ahmad al-Buni and Ibn Manzur and Ibn Khaldoun, who wrote the Muqaddimah while staying in Algeria. During the rule of the Ottoman Empire, Algerian literature remained in Arabic, mainly in the style of short stories and poetry. In the 19th century, with the beginning of French colonialism, most Algerian literature transition into French, and few Arabic works were written until post-independence...
Malayalam, the lingua franca of the Indian state of Kerala and the union territories of Lakshadweep and Mah district , is one of the eleven classical languages of India. Malayalam literature comprises those literary texts written in Malayalam, a South-Dravidian language spoken in the Indian state of Kerala. The first travelogue in any Indian language is the Malayalam Varthamanappusthakam, written by Paremmakkal Thoma Kathanar in 1785. Malayalam literature has been presented with 6 Jnanapith awards, the second-most for any Dravidian language and the third-highest for any Indian language. The Sangam literature can be considered as the ancient predecessor of Malayalam. The origin of Malayalam calendar dates back to year 825 CE. It is generally agreed that the Quilon Syrian copper plates of 849850 CE is the available oldest inscription written in Old Malayalam. The earliest known literary works in Malayalam are Ramacharitam and Thirunizhalmala, two epic poems written in Old Malayalam. In the subsequent centuries, besides a popular Pattu literature, the manipravalam poetry also flourished. Manipravalam translates ruby coral...
British literature is a body of literature from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands. This article covers British literature in the English language. Anglo-Saxon literature is included, and there is some discussion of Anglo-Latin and Anglo-Norman literature, where literature in these languages relate to the early development of the English language and literature. There is also some brief discussion of major figures who wrote in Scots, but the main discussion is in the various Scottish literature articles. The article Literature in the other languages of Britain focuses on the literatures written in the other languages that are, and have been, used in Britain. There are also articles on these various literatures: Latin literature in Britain, Anglo-Norman, Cornish, Guernsiais, Jrriais, Latin, Manx, Scottish Gaelic, Welsh, etc. Irish writers have played an important part in the development of literature in England and Scotland, but though the whole of Ireland was politically part of the United Kingdom from January 1801 to December 1922, it can be controversial to describe Irish literature as British. For some...
Wisdom literature is a genre of literature common in the ancient Near East. It consists of statements by sages and the wise that offer teachings about divinity and virtue. Although this genre uses techniques of traditional oral storytelling, it was disseminated in written form. The earliest known wisdom literature dates back to the middle of the 3rd millennium BC, originating from ancient Mesopotamia and Egypt. These regions continued to produce wisdom literature over the subsequent two and a half millennia. Wisdom literature from Greek, Chinese, and Indian cultures started appearing around the middle of the 1st millennium BC. In the 1st millennium AD, Egyptian-Greek wisdom literature emerged, some elements of which were later incorporated into Islamic thought. Much of wisdom literature can be broadly categorized into two types - conservative positive wisdom and critical negative wisdom or vanity literature: Conservative Positive Wisdom - Pragmatic, real-world advice about proper behavior and actions, attaining success in life, living a good and fulfilling life, etc.. Examples of this genre include: Book of Proverbs, The Instructions of Shuruppak, and first part of Sima Milka...
Burkinab literature grew out of oral tradition, which remains important. In 1934, during French occupation, Dim-Dolobsom Ouedraogo published his Maximes, penses et devinettes mossi Maxims, Thoughts and Riddles of the Mossi, a record of the oral history of the Mossi people. The oral tradition continued to have an influence on Burkinab writers in the post-independence Burkina Faso of the 1960s, such as Nazi Boni and Roger Nikiema. The 1960s saw a growth in the number of playwrights being published. Since the 1970s, literature has developed in Burkina Faso with many more writers being published.  Early literature and colonial times  Prior to colonisation, written literature was virtually absent in Burkina Faso, like much of Africa. The oral tradition has always been important to the many ethnic groups, sustaining the cultural diversity of the country. Culture has been transmitted orally through music and dance. This has been described by Titinga Frdric Pacr in his 1992 book Le langage des tam-tams et des masques Afrique, emphasising the importance in many of Burkina Faso's ethnic groups of griots, and the older members of the communities. In 1934, Dim-Dolobsom Ouedraogo wrote...
Modern literature may refer to: Modernist literature, the literary form of modernism iandai wenxue, a Taiwanese literature journal in publication from 1960 to 1973  See also  Contemporary literature, literature with its setting generally after World War II Postmodern literature, post World War II literature characterized by techniques such as fragmentation, paradox, and the unreliable narrator Modern Kannada literature, in the Kannada language, spoken mainly in the Indian state of Karnataka Modern African literature Modern Arabic literature Modern Greek literature, in common Modern Greek, from the late Byzantine era in the 11th century AD Modern Tajik literature Modern world literature
Akkadian literature is the ancient literature written in the East Semitic Akkadian language in Mesopotamia during the period spanning the Middle Bronze Age to the Iron Age . Drawing on the traditions of Sumerian literature, the Akkadians, Assyrians, and Babylonians compiled a substantial textual tradition of mythological narrative, legal texts, scientific works, letters and other literary forms. Conversely, Akkadian also influenced Sumerian literature.  Literature in Akkadian society  Most of what we have from the Assyrians and Babylonians was inscribed in cuneiform with a metal stylus on tablets of clay, called laterculae coctiles by Pliny the Elder papyrus seems to have also been utilised, but not been preserved. There were libraries in most towns and temples in Akkad, Assyria, Babylonia, and Sumer an old Sumerian proverb averred that he who would excel in the school of the scribes must rise with the dawn. Women as well as men learned to read and write, and after the time the Sumerians themselves had been absorbed by the Semites circa 2000 BC, this involved a knowledge...
Breton literature may refer to literature in the Breton language or the broader literary tradition of Brittany in the three other main languages of the area, namely, Latin, Gallo and French - all of which have had strong mutual linguistic and cultural influences.  Old and Middle Breton literature  Breton literature can be categorised into an Old Breton period, from the 5th to 11th century and a Middle Breton period, up to the 17th century. The period break is marked by the Norman invasions of the 10th and 11th centuries which triggered an exodus out of Brittany. Many Old Breton extant words are glosses in Latin manuscripts from the 9th and 10th centuries, now scattered in libraries and collections throughout Europe. It is likely there was a highly developed oral tradition during the Old Breton period. And on the evidence of Breton names, it would appear that Old and Middle Breton literature inspired much of Arthurian literature, the story of Tristan and Iseult and the Lais of Marie de France.  Leyden Manuscript  The oldest surviving manuscript in the Breton language is kept at Leyden University, Netherlands, and predates the...
Irish literature is literature written in the Irish, Latin, English and Scots languages on the island of Ireland. The earliest recorded Irish writing dates from back in the 7th century and was produced by monks writing in both Latin and Early Irish, including religious texts, poetry and mythological tales. There is a large surviving body of Irish mythological writing, including tales such as Tin B Cailnge and Buile Shuibhne.  History  The English language was introduced to Ireland in the 13th century, following the Norman invasion of Ireland. The 16th and 17th centuries saw a major expansion of English power across Ireland, further expanding the presence of early Modern English speakers. One theory is that in the latter part of the nineteenth century saw a rapid replacement of Irish by English in the greater part of the country, largely due to the Great Famine and the subsequent decimation of the Irish population by starvation and emigration. Another theory among modern scholars is that far from being a sudden cataclysmic event the language shift was well underway much earlier. At the end of the century, however, cultural nationalism displayed a new energy, marked...
Literature of Runion is the literature of persons linked to the island of Runion, a French overseas department in the Indian Ocean east of Madagascar. It is written in French and in Runionnais creole as well as other languages.  History  The origins of Runionnais literature are in Runionnais short stories and poetry, which flourished beginning in the mid-18th century. variste de Parny and Antoine Bertin were writers born in the island in the 18th century, but who spent most of their lives away from their birthplace. For them Runion was a subject that represented beauty and youthful memories. This theme of exoticism was one that predominated in literature written by French-language writers from Runion writing for a readership in France. Runion was recounted as a lost paradise inhabited by happy natives, as in the 1924 novel Ulysse, Cafre ou L'Histoire dore d'un Noir by Prix Goncourt winning Runionnais authors Marius-Ary Leblond. In the 19th century, the novel became more important Les Marrons by Louis Timagne Houat was a major work. In French poetry, Leconte de Lisle and Lon Dierx were leading Parnassians. A movement away from representing Runion as a picturesque...
Scientific literature encompasses a vast body of academic papers that spans various disciplines within the natural and social sciences. It primarily consists of academic papers that present original empirical research and theoretical contributions. These papers serve as essential sources of knowledge and are commonly referred to simply as the literature within specific research fields. The process of academic publishing involves disseminating research findings to a wider audience. Researchers submit their work to reputable journals or conferences, where it undergoes rigorous evaluation by experts in the field. This evaluation, known as peer review, ensures the quality, validity, and reliability of the research before it becomes part of the scientific literature. Peer-reviewed publications contribute significantly to advancing our understanding of the world and shaping future research endeavors. Original scientific research first published in scientific journals constitutes primary literature. Patents and technical reports, which cover minor research results and engineering and design efforts, including computer software, are also classified as primary literature. Secondary sources...
Young adult literature is literature written for readers aged 12 to 18. It may include themes found in adult fiction, such as family dysfunction, substance abuse, alcoholism, and sexuality. The earliest known use of term young adult occurred in 1942. Librarians developed the category of young adult literature to help bridge the gap between children's literature and adult literature. According to a study conducted in 2023, 55 of young adult literature consumers were over 18 years of age. 78 of adult consumers purchased with the intent to read themselves. Of these adult buyers, 51 were between ages 30 and 44. This highlights the fact that readers of young adult literature are often adults.  Definitions  According to author and academic Michael Cart, the term young adult literature first found common usage in the late 1960s, in reference to realistic fiction that was set in the real , contemporary world and addressed problems, issues, and life circumstances of interest to young readers aged approximately 12-18. However, The term 'young adult literature' is inherently amorphous, for its constituent terms 'young adult' and 'literature' are dynamic,...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 511 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Singularity is an experimental operating system developed by Microsoft Research between July 9, 2003, and February 7, 2015. It was designed as a high dependability OS in which the kernel, device drivers, and application software were all written in managed code. Internal security uses type safety instead of hardware memory protection.  Operation  The lowest-level x86 interrupt dispatch code is written in assembly language and C. Once this code has done its job, it invokes the kernel, where the runtime system and garbage collector are written in Sing Sharp , itself an extension of C and runs in real mode. The hardware abstraction layer is written in C and runs in protected mode. There is also some C code to handle debugging. The computer's basic inputoutput system is invoked during the 16-bit real mode bootstrap stage once in 32-bit mode, Singularity never invokes the BIOS again, but invokes device drivers written in Sing. During installation, Common Intermediate Language opcodes are compiled into x86 opcodes using the Bartok compiler.  Security design  Singularity is a microkernel operating system. Unlike...
iOS is a mobile operating system created and developed by Apple for its iPhone line of smartphones. It was unveiled in January 2007 alongside the first-generation iPhone, and was released in June 2007. Major versions of iOS are released annually the current stable version, iOS 27, was released to the public on September 14, 2026. Besides powering iPhone, iOS is the basis for three other operating systems made by Apple: iPadOS, tvOS, and watchOS. iOS formerly also powered iPads until iPadOS was introduced in 2019 and the iPod Touch line of devices until its discontinuation. Apple's HomePods formerly used a modified version of iOS until software update 13.4 . iOS is the world's second most widely installed mobile operating system, after Android. As of December 2023, Apple's App Store contains more than 3.8 million iOS mobile apps. iOS is based on macOS. Like macOS, it includes components of the Mach microkernel and FreeBSD. It is a Unix-like operating system. Although some parts of iOS are open source under the Apple Public Source License and other licenses, iOS is proprietary software.  History  In 2005, when Steve Jobs began planning the iPhone...
Operating System Concepts by Abraham Silberschatz and James Peterson is a classic textbook on operating systems. It is often called the dinosaur book, as the first edition of the book had on the cover a number of dinosaurs labeled with various old operating systems. The bigger dinosaurs were labeled with the older big OSs. The ape-like creature was labeled UNI. The idea was that like dinosaurs, operating systems evolve.  Publication history  The first edition of Operating System Concepts was released in 1982 and was published by Addison-Wesley, as was every edition of the textbook since release. The book has been published in updated editions since 1983. The third edition added the author Peter Galvin, and the sixth edition added the author Greg Gagne. As of 18 June 2025 the textbook was in its tenth edition.  References 
Robot Operating System is an open-source robotics middleware suite. Although ROS is not an operating system but a set of software frameworks for robot software development, it provides services designed for a heterogeneous computer cluster such as hardware abstraction, low-level device control, implementation of commonly used functionality, message-passing between processes, and package management. Running sets of ROS-based processes are represented in a graph architecture where processing takes place in nodes that may receive, post, and multiplex sensor data, control, state, planning, actuator, and other messages.  Overview  Despite the importance of reactivity and low latency in robot control, ROS is not a real-time operating system . However, it is possible to integrate ROS with real-time computing code. The lack of support for real-time systems has been addressed in the creation of ROS 2, a major revision of the ROS API which will take advantage of modern libraries and technologies for core ROS functions and add support for real-time code and embedded system hardware. Software in the ROS ecosystem can be separated into three groups: language- and platform...
There are several Unix-like operating systems under active development that are descended from the Berkeley Software Distribution, a series of UNI variants developed by the Computer Systems Research Group at the University of California, Berkeley.  History  BSD was originally derived from Unix, using the complete source code for Sixth Edition Unix for the PDP-11 from Bell Labs as a starting point for the First Berkeley Software Distribution, or 1BSD. A series of updated versions for the PDP-11 followed . A 32-bit version for the VA platform was released as 3BSD, and the 4.xBSD series added many new features, including TCPIP networking. For many years, the primary developer and project leader was Bill Joy, who was a graduate student at the time funding for this project was provided by DARPA. DARPA was interested in obtaining a programming platform and programmer's interface which would provide a robust, general purpose, time-sharing computing platform which would not become obsolete every time computing hardware was or is replaced. Such an operating system would allow US Department of Defense software, especially for intricate, long-term finance and logistics...
The Oberon System is a modular, single-user, single-process, multitasking operating system written in the programming language Oberon. It was originally developed in the late 1980s at ETH Zurich. The Oberon System has an unconventional visual text user interface instead of a conventional command-line interface or graphical user interface . This TUI was very innovative in its time. It influenced the design of the Acme text editor for the Plan 9 from Bell Labs operating system and bears some similarities to the Look and feel of the worksheet interface of the Macintosh Programmer's Workshop. The system also evolved into the multi-process, symmetric multiprocessing capable A2 , then Bluebottle, with a zooming user interface .  History  The Oberon operating system originated as part of the NS32032-based Ceres workstation project. It was written almost entirely and in the 2013 version entirely is valid in the Oberon programming language. The basic system was designed and implemented by Niklaus Wirth and Jrg Gutknecht and its design and implementation is fully documented in their book Project Oberon. The user Interface...
Rhapsody is an operating system that was developed by Apple Computer after its purchase of NeT in the late 1990s. It is the fifth major release of the Mach-based operating system that was developed at NeT in the late 1980s, previously called NeTSTEP and OPENSTEP for Mach. Rhapsody was targeted to developers for a transition period between the Classic Mac OS and Mac OS . Rhapsody represented a new and exploratory strategy for Apple, more than an operating system, and runs on x86-based PCs and on Power Macintosh. Rhapsody's OPENSTEP for Mach-based Yellow Box API frameworks were ported to Windows NT for creating cross-platform applications. Eventually, the non-Apple platforms were discontinued, and later versions consist primarily of the OpenStep operating system ported to Power Macintosh, merging the Copland-originated GUI of Mac OS 8 with that of OPENSTEP for Mach. Several existing classic Mac OS frameworks were ported, including QuickTime and AppleSearch. Rhapsody can run Mac OS 8 and its applications in a paravirtualization layer called Blue Box for backward compatibility during migration to Mac OS .  Background   Naming  Rhapsody follows Apple's pattern through the 1990s...
DOS is a family of disk-based operating systems for IBM PC compatible computers. It primarily consists of IBM PC DOS and a rebranded version, Microsoft's MS-DOS, both of which were introduced in 1981. Later, compatible systems from other manufacturers are DR-DOS , ROM-DOS , PTS-DOS , and FreeDOS . MS-DOS dominated the IBM PC compatible market between 1981 and 1995. Although the name has come to be identified specifically with MS-DOS and compatible operating systems, DOS is a platform-independent acronym for disk operating system, whose use predates the IBM PC. Dozens of other operating systems also use the acronym, beginning with the mainframe DOS360 from 1966. Others include Apple DOS, Apple ProDOS, Atari DOS, Commodore DOS, TRSDOS, and AmigaDOS.  History   Origins  IBM PC DOS and its predecessor, 86-DOS, ran on Intel 8086 16-bit processors. It was developed to be similar to Digital Research's CPM-the dominant disk operating system for 8-bit Intel 8080 and Zilog Z80 microcomputers-in order to simplify porting CPM applications to MS-DOS. When IBM introduced the IBM PC, built with the Intel 8088 microprocessor...
Replicant is a free and open-source Android-based operating system that intends to replace all proprietary Android components with free-software counterparts. It is available for several smartphones and tablets. Replicant's modifications are mostly in the C programming language, and its changes are mostly to the lower-level parts of the OS, such as the Linux kernel and drivers that use it. The name Replicant is drawn from the fictional replicant androids in the Blade Runner movie. Replicant is sponsored and supported by the Free Software Foundation and partially by NLnet.  History  The Replicant project started in mid-2010 with an effort to consolidate various initiatives attempting to produce a fully free-as-in-freedom Android derivative for the HTC Dream device. The original team consisted of Bradley M. Kuhn, Aaron Williamson, Graziano Sorbaioli and Denis 'GNUtoo' Carikli. The project quickly led to the writing of replacement code for the non-free parts that were required to make HTC Dream functional. The first component to be replaced permitted audio to work without a proprietary library. Replicant originally provided its own FOSS application repository, which was later replaced...
Fedora Linux is a Linux distribution developed by the Fedora Project. It was originally developed in 2003 as a continuation of the Red Hat Linux project. It contains software distributed under various free and open-source licenses and aims to be on the leading edge of open-source technologies. It is now the upstream source for CentOS Stream and Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Since the release of Fedora 21 in December 2014, three editions have been made available: personal computer, server and cloud computing. This was expanded to five editions for containerization and Internet of Things as of the release of Fedora 37 in November 2022. A new version of Fedora Linux is usually released roughly every six months. As of February 2016, Fedora Linux has an estimated 1.2 million users, including Linus Torvalds, creator of the Linux kernel.  History  The name of Fedora derives from the original Fedora Linux, a volunteer project that provided extra software for the Red Hat Linux distribution, and from the characteristic fedora hat used in Red Hat's Shadowman logo. Warren Togami began Fedora Linux in 2002 as an undergraduate project at the University of Hawaii, intended to provide a single...
A Terminal Operating System, or TOS, is a key part of a supply chain and primarily aims to control the movement and storage of various types of cargo in and around a port or marine terminal. The systems also enables better use of assets, labour and equipment, plan workload, and receive up-to-date information. Terminal operating systems generally fall under one of two categories depending on supported cargo type, namely, containerized or non-containerized. Large container terminals typically require yard management functionality in a TOS, whereas bulk dry and liquid cargo terminals do not. Terminal Operating Systems often use other technologies such as internet, EDI processing, mobile computers, wireless LANs and Radio-frequency identification to efficiently monitor the flow of products in, out and around the terminal. Data is either a batch synchronization with, or a real-time wireless transmission to a central database. The database can then provide useful reports about the status of goods, locations and machines in the terminal. The objective of a terminal operating system is to provide a set of computerized procedures to manage cargo, machines and people within the facility...
In computing, a daemon is a program that runs as a background process, rather than being under the direct control of an interactive user. Customary convention is to name a daemon process with the letter d as a suffix to indicate that it's a daemon. For example, syslogd is a daemon that implements system logging facility, and sshd is a daemon that serves incoming SSH connections. Even though the concept can apply to many computing systems, the term daemon is used almost exclusively in the context of Unix-based systems. In other contexts, different terms are used for the same concept. Systems often start daemons at boot time that will respond to network requests, hardware activity, or other programs by performing some task. Daemons such as cron may also perform defined tasks at scheduled times.  Terminology  The term was coined by the programmers at MIT's Project MAC. According to Fernando J. Corbat, who worked on Project MAC around 1963, his team was the first to use the term daemon, inspired by Maxwell's demon, an imaginary agent in physics and thermodynamics that helped to sort molecules, stating, We fancifully began to use the word daemon to describe background...
The following is a list of operating systems released by Apple Inc. As of 2025, there are six supported software platforms: iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, tvOS, macOS and visionOS. Prior to the introduction of the Macintosh in early 1984, Apple had several operating systems for the Apple II series, Apple SOS for the Apple III series, and Lisa OS and MacWorks L for the Apple Lisa series those were introduced between 1977 and 1983. The original operating system for the Macintosh was the classic Mac OS, which was introduced in early 1984 as System Software. In 1997, System Software was renamed Mac OS. In 1999, Mac OS  Server 1.0 was released, followed by Mac OS  10.0, the first consumer release of the Mac OS . From the release of Mac OS  10.0 until early 2007, Mac OS  was the only software platform. In early 2007, iPhone OS was introduced, increasing the number of software platforms by one, from one to two. In 2010, iPhone OS was renamed iOS. In 2011, Mac OS  was renamed OS . In early 2015, the number of software platforms rose by one, from two to three, as watchOS was introduced. In late 2015, tvOS was introduced, increasing the number of software platforms again by one, from three to...
There are a number of Unix-like operating systems based on or descended from the Berkeley Software Distribution series of Unix variant options. The three most notable descendants in current use are FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and NetBSD, which are all derived from 386BSD and 4.4BSD-Lite, by various routes. Both NetBSD and FreeBSD started life in 1993, initially derived from 386BSD, but in 1994 migrated to a 4.4BSD-Lite code base. OpenBSD was forked from NetBSD in 1995. Other notable derivatives include DragonFly BSD, which was forked from FreeBSD 4.8. Most of the current BSD operating systems are open source and available for download, free of charge, under the BSD License. They also generally use a monolithic kernel architecture, apart from DragonFly BSD which feature hybrid kernels. The various open source BSD projects generally develop the kernel and userland programs and libraries together, the source code being managed using a single central source repository. BSD has also been used as a basis for several proprietary versions of UNI, such as Apple Inc.'s MacOS, Sun's SunOS, Sequent's Dynix, NeT's NeTSTEP, DEC's Ultrix and OSF1 AP which became the now discontinued Tru64 UNI...
International Computers Limited was a British computer hardware, computer software and computer services company that operated from 1968 until 2002. It was formed through a merger of International Computers and Tabulators , English Electric Computers and Elliott Automation in 1968. The company's most successful product line was the ICL 2900 Series range of mainframe computers. In later years, ICL diversified its product line but the bulk of its profits always came from its mainframe customers. New ventures included marketing a range of powerful IBM clones made by Fujitsu, various minicomputer and personal computer ranges and a range of retail point-of-sale equipment and back-office software. Although it had significant sales overseas, ICL's mainframe business was dominated by large contracts from the UK public sector, including Post Office Ltd, the Inland Revenue, the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Defence. It also had a strong market share with UK local authorities and nationalised utilities including the water, electricity, and gas boards. The company had an increasingly close relationship with Fujitsu from...
Netrunner is a Debian-based open source Linux distribution for desktop computers, laptops, netbooks and ARM-based devices. Two versions of Netrunner are available: Desktop and Core.  Overview  Netrunner is a 64-bit desktop operating system and uses the Calamares graphical installer. Netrunner 1 Albedo was first released on March 18, 2010. Netrunner is based on Debian Stable. Its desktop environment is based on Plasma Desktop by KDE. Netrunner Core is a desktop version containing only a small number of essential applications. Netrunner has support for the Pinebook and Odroid C1 ARM. The latest release, Netrunner 26, has switched to Libre as the default display server.  Default software  A default installation of Netrunner contains the following software: KDE Plasma Desktop Mozilla Firefox Mozilla Thunderbird VLC media player LibreOffice GIMP Krita Gwenview Kdenlive Inkscape Samba Mounter Steam VirtualBox  Release history  The following is the release history for Netrunner Core and Desktop: The following is the release history for previously Kubuntu based Netrunner...
Sally Jane Brampton was an English journalist, writer, and magazine editor. She was the founding editor of the British edition of the French magazine Elle in 1985.  Early life  She was born in Brunei, on the island of Borneo, the daughter of Pamela and Roy Brampton her father was a manager for oil firm Shell. Brampton was the middle child with an elder and younger brother. Her father's job meant that the family's existence was nomadic with periods living in many countries. In all she attended twelve schools, among which were a school in Rio de Janeiro, Ashford School in Kent, where she boarded, and St Clare's Hall School in Oxford. After leaving school, she studied fashion at Saint Martin's School of Art. After winning a competition, Brampton joined Vogue in 1978, and then became the fashion editor of The Observer in 1981.  Launch editor of British Elle  Brampton was appointed the first editor of the British edition of the French magazine Elle which published its first issue in November 1985. There was a whole new generation fumbling its way towards tomorrow, she said later. Elle was the first mainstream magazine to act as a voice...
In mathematics, the direct image functor describes how structured data assigned to one space can be systematically transferred to another space using a continuous map between them. More precisely, if we have a sheaf-an object that encodes data like functions or sections over open regions-defined on a space , and a continuous map from  to another space Y, then the direct image functor produces a corresponding sheaf on Y. This construction is a central tool in sheaf theory and is widely used in topology and algebraic geometry to relate local data across spaces. More formally, given a sheaf F defined on a topological space  and a continuous map f:   Y, we can define a new sheaf fF on Y, called the direct image sheaf or the pushforward sheaf of F along f, such that the global sections of fF is given by the global sections of F. This assignment gives rise to a functor f from the category of sheaves on  to the category of sheaves on Y, which is known as the direct image functor. Similar constructions exist in many other algebraic and geometric contexts, including that of quasi-coherent sheaves and tale sheaves on a scheme.  Definition  Let f:   Y be a continuous map of topological...
David William Ogden is an American lawyer who served as the United States deputy attorney general. Ogden was also a high-ranking official in the United States Department of Justice and the United States Department of Defense during the administration of President Bill Clinton.  Early life and education  Ogden is the son of Horace G. Hod Ogden , who was the first director of the Bureau of Health Education at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and previously had worked for the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and Elaine C. Ogden, an elementary school teacher. Ogden earned an A.B. summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania in 1976 and a J.D. magna cum laude in 1981 from Harvard Law School. He served as an editor of the Harvard Law Review. In 1981-82, Ogden clerked for Judge Abraham David Sofaer of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, and in 1982-83, he clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice Harry A. Blackmun.  Career  Ogden began his career in Washington, D.C., as an associate from 1983 until 1985 at the law firm of Ennis Friedman  Bersoff, and he served...
Baby Makes Five is an American sitcom television series starring Peter Scolari. The series premiered April 1, 1983 on ABC.  Plot  Eddie is an accountant who married to Jennie and the father of three children, with twins on the way. Jennie's mother was free-spirited, while Eddie's mother was staid and conservative. Laura Riddle marked the first screen appearance for Jenny Lewis, and Annie Riddle was played by Brandy Gold, sibling of other 1980's sitcom stars Tracey and Missy Gold.  Cast  Peter Scolari as Eddie Riddle Louise Williams as Jennie Riddle Andre Gower as Michael Riddle Jenny Lewis  Emily Moultrie as Laura Riddle Brandy Gold as Annie Riddle Janis Paige as Blanche Riddle Priscilla Morrill as Edna Kearney  US TV ratings   Episodes   Notes   References   External links  Baby Makes Five at IMDb
WSQ can refer to: Wavelet Scalar Quantization, a fingerprint image compression algorithm Workforce Skills Qualifications, Singapore national continuing education and training system World Saxophone Quartet WSQ : Women's Studies Quarterly, an academic journal W.S.Q.
Linea Avey formerly known by her birth name 'Linda Avey'  is an American biologist and entrepreneur. She is known for co-founding 23andMe, a consumer genetic data company.  Early life  Avey was born Linda Bahnson in 1960, in South Dakota, United States. She attended Augustana University, where she received a Bachelor of Arts in biology, in 1982.  Early career  Avey began her scientific career in 1982 at University of California, Irvine as a staff research associate. It has been stated that in 1985, she moved into various sales and business development in the fields of biopharmaceutical and academic research. As of 2024, a site to which Avey submits information was stating that she had over 20 years of sales and business development experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in San Francisco, Boston, San Diego, and Washington, D.C. She worked at Perlegen Sciences, where she was part of the company's alliance management team, working on research collaborations and grant submissions to the National Institutes of Health. While at Perlegen, she worked on a Parkinson's disease study funded by The Michael J. Fox Foundation, through which she met Google co-founder...
The United States Post Office, Court House, and Custom House was a U.S. federal building in Louisville, Kentucky that served as the seat of the United States District Court for the District of Kentucky and its successor, the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, from 1893 to 1932. The five-story courthouse hosted about 100 offices and was located at the northeast corner of Fourth and Chestnut streets. The building's copper-clad clock tower was an important city landmark of its day. The building was vacated following the New Deal-era construction of what is now known as the Gene Snyder United States Courthouse, and finally demolished during World War II, in a part due to wartime scarcity of metal for industrial uses.  History  In the 1880s it was determined that the city had outgrown the 1853 custom-house. In 1883, the U.S. government paid US110,000 for the land. Construction of the new federal building went fairly slowly, with the cornerstone laid on October 3, 1886, and full occupancy not until October 1893. The post office moved 70 letter carriers and 130 clerks into the building in April 1892, and the building was...
Andrew William Halliday is a Scottish former professional footballer who played as a midfielder or left-back. He has previously played for Livingston, Middlesbrough, Walsall, Blackpool, Bradford City, Gabala, Rangers, Heart of Midlothian and Motherwell. In January 2015, he scored Bradford City's third goal against Chelsea in the fourth round of the FA Cup. His club went on to win 4-2, a result regarded as one of the greatest FA Cup shock results in the history of the competition. In May 2026, Andy Halliday retired from professional football.  Playing career   Livingston  Halliday was in the youth team that won the SFL under-19 League and Cup double in 2008-09, and the side that retained the league title in 2009-10. After promising developments at Ross County, Halliday was scouted by Rangers before being released in 2006. He then moved to Livingston, playing for the under-19s before progressing to the first team and making his debut on 26 April 2008, as a substitute in a 5-2 defeat against St Johnstone. In March 2009, Halliday alongside then Livingston teammates Leigh Griffiths and Joe McKee spent five days on trial with Italian Serie B side Parma. Halliday...
Lucas Mbadi is a retired South African politician and academic. He served in the National Assembly from 1999 to 2004, representing the United Democratic Movement until April 2003, when he crossed the floor to the African National Congress .  Life and career  Born on 20 September 1931, Mbadi was formerly a professor at the University of Transkei in the present-day Eastern Cape. In the 1999 general election, he was narrowly elected to a UDM seat in the Eastern Cape caucus of the National Assembly. On 1 April 2003, during that month's floor-crossing window, he was among the UDM representatives who resigned from the party and joined the governing ANC. He served the rest of the parliamentary term under the ANC's banner.  References 
The pygmy bamboo bat is a species of vesper bat in the family Vespertilionidae. It is found in Southwest China and was discovered in 2007. The species is around 4 cm long and weighs between 2.6 and 3.5 g .  References   Further reading  Feng, Qing, Song Li, Yingxiang Wang, New Species of Bamboo Bat Chiroptera: Vespertilionidae: Tylonycteris from Southwestern China. Zoological Science 25: 225-234. 2008. Zoological Society of Japan. doi:10.2108zsj.25.225
Johnson Lake is a glacial lake in Elmore County, Idaho, United States. Johnson Lake may also refer to:  Lakes in the United States   Alaska  Johnson Lake , in Kenai Peninsula Borough, Alaska Johnson Lake , in Matanuska-Susitna Borough, Alaska  Arkansas  Big Johnson Lake, in Calhoun County Johnson Lake , a reservoir in Crawford County Johnson Lake , in Jackson County Johnson Lake , two lakes in Jefferson County Johnson Lake , in Lee County Johnson Lake , in Lonoke County  Idaho  Johnson Lake, in Elmore County  Illinois  Johnson Lake, in Johnson-Sauk Trail State Recreation Area, Henry County  Indiana  Johnson Lake, in Otsego Township, Steuben County Johnson Lake, in Pleasant Township, Steuben County  Minnesota  Johnson Lake, in Glen Township, Aitkin County, Minnesota Johnson Lake, in Hazelton Township, Aitkin County, Minnesota Johnson Lake, in Spencer Township, Aitkin County, Minnesota Johnson Lake, in Eagle View Township, Becker County, Minnesota Johnson Lake, in...
Rivina humilis is a species of flowering plant in the family Petiveriaceae. It was formerly placed in the pokeweed family, Phytolaccaceae. It can be found in the southern United States, the Caribbean, Central America, and tropical South America. Common names include dogblood, pigeonberry, rougeplant, baby peppers, bloodberry, and coralito. The specific epithet means dwarfish or lowly in Latin, referring to the plant's short stature.  Description  Pigeonberry is an erect, vine-like herb, reaching a height of 0.4-2 m . The leaves of this evergreen perennial are up to 15 cm long and 9 cm wide, with a petiole 1-11 cm in length. Flowers are on racemes 4-15 cm long with a peduncle 1-5 cm in length and pedicels 2-8 mm long. Sepals are 1.5-3.5 mm in length and white or green to pink or purplish. The fruit is a glossy, bright red berry 2.5-5 mm in diameter.  Habitat  Rivina humilis can be found in forests, thickets, shell middens, hammocks, roadsides, and disturbed areas at elevations from sea level to 1,700 m . It requires less than partial sun and...
Abdelhadi Said Arabic:    born 1974 in Marrakesh is a Moroccan poet.  Bibliography  Taphassil Assarab, UEM, 1996 Infarctus ou les mots dcroiss, L'Harmattan, 2002 La Wa Akhawatoha, Saad Warzazi Editions, 2003 Routine Addahcha, Saad Warzazi Editions, 2004 Barbus jusqu'aux dents, Le Manuscrit, 2005  External links  Interview with Abdelhadi Homepage of Abdelhadi Said Poems by Abdelhadi
This list is for ecoregions with high endemism. According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the following ecoregions have the highest percentage of endemic plants.  Ecoregions  Fynbos Hawaiian tropical dry forests Hawaiian tropical rainforests Kwongan heathlands Madagascar dry deciduous forests Madagascar lowland forests New Caledonia dry forests New Caledonia rain forests Sierra Madre de Oaxaca pine-oak forests Sierra Madre del Sur pine-oak forests Luzon montane rainforests Luzon rainforests Luzon tropical pine forests Mindanao montane rain forests Mindanao-Eastern Visayas rain forests Palawan rain forests  See also  Centre of endemism Endemism in the Hawaiian Islands  References 
The 1925 Massachusetts Aggies football team represented Massachusetts Agricultural College in the 1925 college football season, competing as a member of the New England Conference. The team was coached by Harold Gore and played its home games at Alumni Field in Amherst, Massachusetts. Massachusetts finished the season with an overall record of 6-2, and a conference record of 1-0.  Schedule   References 
Secretly, Greatly Korean:   RR: Eunmilhage widaehage is a 2013 South Korean action comedy-drama film starring Kim Soo-hyun, Park Ki-woong, and Lee Hyun-woo, who play North Korean spies who infiltrate South Korea as a village idiot, a rock musician, and a high school student, respectively. They assimilate to small-town life while awaiting their orders, until one day, due to a sudden power shift in the North, their mission turns out to be an order to commit suicide. The film is based on the 2010 spy webtoon series Covertness by Hun. Upon its release on 5 June 2013, the film broke several box office records in South Korea: the highest single-day opening for a domestic film, most tickets sold in one day for a domestic film, the biggest opening weekend, the highest-grossing webtoon-based film, and the fastest movie to reach the million, two million, three million, and four million marks in audience number. Movie pundits attribute its success to a large teen audience turnout.  Synopsis  A group of spies called the 5446 Corps were trained by North Korean elite special forces since their youth, ostensibly towards the lofty goal of unifying Korea. They are ambitiously dispatched...
Say! Young Fellow was a 1918 American silent romantic comedy film produced by and starring Douglas Fairbanks and distributed by Famous Players-Lasky Artcraft. The picture was directed by Joseph Henabery. The film is now considered lost.  Cast  Douglas Fairbanks as The Young Fellow Marjorie Daw as The Girl Frank Campeau as The Villain Edythe Chapman as A Sweet Spinster James Neill as A Kindly Bachelor Ernest Butterworth as Undetermined Role  See also  List of lost films  References   External links  Say! Young Fellow at IMDb Say! Young Fellow at SilentEra
A mathematical problem is a problem that can be represented, analyzed, and possibly solved, with the methods of mathematics. This can be a real-world problem, such as computing the orbits of the planets in the Solar System, or a problem of a more abstract nature, such as Hilbert's problems. It can also be a problem referring to the nature of mathematics itself, such as Russell's Paradox.  Real-world problems  Informal real-world mathematical problems are questions related to a concrete setting, such as Adam has five apples and gives John three. How many has he left?. Such questions are usually more difficult to solve than regular mathematical exercises like 5  3, even if one knows the mathematics required to solve the problem. Known as word problems, they are used in mathematics education to teach students to connect real-world situations to the abstract language of mathematics. In general, to use mathematics for solving a real-world problem, the first step is to construct a mathematical model of the problem. This involves abstraction from the details of the problem, and the modeller has to be careful not to lose essential aspects in translating the original problem into...
Mathematical Platonism is the form of realism that suggests that mathematical entities are abstract, have no spatiotemporal or causal properties, and are eternal and unchanging. This is often claimed to be the view most people have of numbers.  Overview  The term Platonism is used because such a view is seen to parallel Plato's Theory of Forms and world of Ideas , most famously described in his Allegory of the Cave: the everyday world, as perceived by the senses, only imperfectly approximates another-unchanging and ultimate-reality, which is accessible to the intellect alone. Both Plato's cave and Platonism have meaningful, not just superficial connections, because Plato's ideas were preceded and probably influenced by the hugely popular Pythagoreans of ancient Greece, who believed that the world was, quite literally, generated by numbers. A major question considered in mathematical Platonism is: precisely where and how do mathematical entities exist, and how do we come to know of them? If they exist independently of the mind-i.e., are not simply a human invention-is there some sense in which they can be said to occupy a separate, non-physical realm?...
Johann Carl Friedrich Gauss   German: Gau 30 April 1777 - 23 February 1855 was a German mathematician, astronomer, geodesist, and physicist, who contributed to many fields in mathematics and science. His mathematical contributions spanned the branches of number theory, algebra, analysis, geometry, statistics, and probability. Gauss was director of the Gttingen Observatory in Germany and professor of astronomy from 1807 until his death in 1855. From an early age, Gauss was known as a child prodigy in mathematics. While studying at the University of Gttingen, he propounded several mathematical theorems. As an independent scholar, he wrote the masterpieces Disquisitiones Arithmeticae and Theoria motus corporum coelestium. Gauss produced the second and third complete proofs of the fundamental theorem of algebra. He also introduced the triple bar symbol for congruence. In number theory, he made numerous contributions, such as the composition law, the law of quadratic reciprocity, and proved the triangular case of the Fermat polygonal number theorem. He also contributed to the theory of binary and ternary quadratic forms, and the theory of hypergeometric series. When Gauss was...
In mathematics and computer science, an algorithm is any well-defined set of instructions that when followed terminates after a finite number of steps that comprise a solution to a given computational problem. Advanced algorithms may utilize loops and involve many conditionals that decide the next step based on the inputs provided, resulting in long sequences of steps before halting, but all algorithms terminate by definition. In contrast to algorithms, heuristics might be applied to problems for which it is not possible for an algorithmic solution to exist, e.g., because the problem is undecidable or there is otherwise no way to define the correct or optimal result. For example, although social media recommender systems are erroneously called algorithms in popular media, they are accurately classified as heuristics, because there is no objective criteria by which a recommendation produced by such a system can be judged as correct. As an effective method, an algorithm can be expressed within both a finite amount of space and time and in a well-defined formal language for calculating a function. Starting from an initial state and input, a computation occurs at each step, eventually...
The Programme for International Student Assessment is a worldwide study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in member and non-member nations intended to evaluate educational systems by measuring 15-year-old school pupils' scholastic performance on mathematics, science, and reading. It was first performed in 2000 and then repeated every three years. Its aim is to provide comparable data to enable countries to improve their education policies and outcomes. It measures problem solving and cognition. The results of the 2022 data collection were released in December 2023.  Influence and impact  PISA, and similar international standardised assessments of educational attainment are increasingly used in the process of education policymaking at both national and international levels. PISA was conceived to set in a wider context the information provided by national monitoring of education system performance through regular assessments within a common, internationally agreed framework by investigating relationships between student learning and other factors they can offer insights into sources of variation in performances within and between countries...
A prime number is a natural number greater than 1 that is not a product of two smaller natural numbers. A natural number greater than 1 that is not prime is called a composite number. For example, 5 is prime because the only ways of writing it as a product, 1  5 or 5  1, involve 5 itself. However, 4 is composite because it is a product in which both numbers are smaller than 4. Primes are central in number theory because of the fundamental theorem of arithmetic: every natural number greater than 1 is either a prime itself or can be factorized as a product of primes that is unique up to their order. The property of being prime is called primality. A simple but slow method of checking the primality of a given number  n displaystyle n , called trial division, tests whether  n displaystyle n  is a multiple of any integer between 2 and  n displaystyle sqrt n . Faster algorithms include the Miller-Rabin primality test, which is fast but has a small chance of error, and the AKS primality...
In mathematics, a character is a special kind of function from a group to a field . There are at least two distinct, but overlapping meanings. Other uses of the word character are almost always qualified.  Multiplicative character  A multiplicative character on a group G is a group homomorphism from G to the multiplicative group of a field , usually the field of complex numbers. If G is any group, then the set Ch of these morphisms forms an abelian group under pointwise multiplication. This group is referred to as the character group of G. Sometimes only unitary characters are considered  other such homomorphisms are then called quasi-characters. Dirichlet characters can be seen as a special case of this definition. Multiplicative characters are linearly independent, i.e. if  1 ,  2 ,  ,  n...
Geometry is a branch of mathematics concerned with properties of space such as the distance, shape, size, and relative position of figures. Geometry is, along with arithmetic, one of the oldest branches of mathematics. A mathematician who works in the field of geometry is called a geometer. Until the 19th century, geometry was almost exclusively devoted to Euclidean geometry, which includes the notions of point, line, plane, distance, angle, surface, and curve, as fundamental concepts. Originally developed to model the physical world, geometry has applications in almost all sciences, and also in art, architecture, and other activities that are related to graphics. Geometry also has applications in areas of mathematics that are apparently unrelated. For example, methods of algebraic geometry are fundamental in Wiles's proof of Fermat's Last Theorem, a problem that was stated in terms of elementary arithmetic, and remained unsolved for several centuries. During the 19th century, several discoveries enlarged dramatically the scope of geometry. One of the oldest such discoveries is Carl Friedrich Gauss's Theorema Egregium that asserts roughly that the Gaussian curvature...
Men of Mathematics: The Lives and Achievements of the Great Mathematicians from Zeno to Poincar is a book on the history of mathematics published in 1937 by Scottish-born American mathematician and science fiction writer E. T. Bell . After a brief chapter on three ancient mathematicians, it covers the lives of about forty mathematicians who flourished in the seventeenth through nineteenth centuries. The book is illustrated by mathematical discussions, with emphasis on mainstream mathematics. To keep the interest of readers, the book typically focuses on unusual or dramatic aspects of its subjects' lives. Men of Mathematics has inspired many young people, including John Forbes Nash Jr., Julia Robinson, and Freeman Dyson, to become mathematicians. It is not intended as a rigorous history, and includes many anecdotal accounts.  Publication  In July 1935, Bell signed a contract with Simon and Schuster, for a book to be titled The Lives of Mathematicians. He delivered the manuscript at the beginning of November 1935 as promised, but was unhappy when the publishers made him cut about a third of it , and, in order to tie in with their book Men of Art by Thomas...
Fuzzy mathematics is a branch of mathematics that extends classical set theory and logic to model reasoning under uncertainty. Initiated by Lotfi Asker Zadeh in 1965 with the introduction of fuzzy sets, the field has since evolved to include fuzzy set theory, fuzzy logic, and various fuzzy analogues of traditional mathematic structures. Unlike classical mathematics, which usually relies on binary membership an element either belongs to a set or it does not, fuzzy mathematics allows elements to partially belong to a set, with degrees of membership represented by values in the interval . This framework enables more flexible modeling of imprecise or vague concepts. Fuzzy mathematics has found applications in numerous domains, including control theory, artificial intelligence, decision theory, pattern recognition, and linguistics, where the modeling of gradations and uncertainty is essential.  Definition  A fuzzy subset A of a set  is defined by a function A:   L, where L is typically the interval . This function is called the membership function of the fuzzy subset and assigns to each element x in  a degree of membership A in the fuzzy set A. In classical set...
The subject of physical mathematics is concerned with mathematics that is motivated by physics and is considered by some as a subfield of mathematical physics.  Overview  Physically motivated mathematics existed within a tradition of mathematical analysis of nature that goes back to the ancient Greeks. A good example is Archimedes' Method of Mechanical Theorems, where the principle of the balance is used to find results in pure geometry. This tradition, elaborated further by Islamic and Byzantine scholars, was reintroduced to the West in the 12th century and during the Renaissance. It became known as mixed mathematics and was a major contributor to the emergence of modern mathematical physics in the 17th century. The details of physical units and their manipulation were addressed by Alexander Macfarlane in Physical Arithmetic in 1885. The science of kinematics created a need for mathematical representation of motion and has found expression with complex numbers, quaternions, and linear algebra. At the University of Cambridge the Mathematical Tripos tested students on their knowledge of mixed mathematics. ... ew books which appeared in the mid-eighteenth century offered...
Mathematics and art are related in a variety of ways. Mathematics has itself been described as an art motivated by beauty. Mathematics can be discerned in arts such as music, dance, painting, architecture, sculpture, and textiles. This article focuses, however, on mathematics in the visual arts. Mathematics and art have a long historical relationship. Artists have used mathematics since the 4th century BC when the Greek sculptor Polykleitos wrote his Canon, prescribing proportions conjectured to have been based on the ratio 1:2 for the ideal male nude. Persistent popular claims have been made for the use of the golden ratio in ancient art and architecture, without reliable evidence. In the Italian Renaissance, Luca Pacioli wrote the influential treatise De divina proportione , illustrated with woodcuts by Leonardo da Vinci, on the use of the golden ratio in art. Another Italian painter, Piero della Francesca, developed Euclid's ideas on perspective in treatises such as De Prospectiva Pingendi, and in his paintings. The engraver Albrecht Drer made many references to mathematics in his work Melencolia I. In modern times, the graphic artist M. C. Escher made intensive use of tessellation...
The Mathematical Tripos is the mathematics course that is taught in the Faculty of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.  Origin  In its classical 19th century form, the tripos was a distinctive written examination of undergraduate students of the University of Cambridge. Prior to 1824, the Mathematical Tripos was formally known as the Senate House Examination. From about 1780 to 1909, the Old Tripos was distinguished by a number of features, including the publication of an order of merit of successful candidates, and the difficulty of the mathematical problems set for solution. By way of example, in 1854, the Tripos consisted of 16 papers spread over eight days, totalling 44.5 hours. The total number of questions was 211. It was divided into two parts, with Part I covering more elementary topics. The actual marks for the exams were never published, but there is reference to an exam in the 1860s where, out of a total possible mark of 17,000, the senior wrangler achieved 7,634, the second wrangler 4,123, the lowest wrangler around 1,500 and the lowest scoring candidate obtaining honours 237 about 100 candidates were awarded honours...
In mathematics, deformation theory is the study of infinitesimal conditions associated with varying a solution P of a problem to slightly different solutions P, where  is a small number, or a vector of small quantities. The infinitesimal conditions are the result of applying the approach of differential calculus to solving a problem with constraints. The name is an analogy to non-rigid structures that deform slightly to accommodate external forces. Some characteristic phenomena are: the derivation of first-order equations by treating the  quantities as having negligible squares the possibility of isolated solutions, in that varying a solution may not be possible, or does not bring anything new and the question of whether the infinitesimal constraints actually 'integrate', so that their solution does provide small variations. In some form, these considerations have a history of centuries in mathematics, but also in physics and engineering. For example, in the geometry of numbers a class of results called isolation theorems was recognised, with the topological interpretation of an open orbit around a given solution. Perturbation theory also looks at deformations...
The Millennium Prize Problems are seven well-known complex mathematical problems selected by the Clay Mathematics Institute in 2000. The Clay Institute has pledged to pay one million US dollars for the first correct solution to each problem. The Clay Mathematics Institute officially designated the title Millennium Problem for the seven unsolved mathematical problems, the Birch and Swinnerton-Dyer conjecture, Hodge conjecture, Navier-Stokes existence and smoothness, P versus NP problem, Riemann hypothesis, Yang-Mills existence and mass gap, and the Poincar conjecture at the Millennium Meeting held on May 24, 2000. Thus, on the official website of the Clay Mathematics Institute, these seven problems are officially called the Millennium Problems. As of 2026, the only Millennium Prize problem to have been officially declared solved is the Poincar conjecture. The Clay Institute awarded the monetary prize to Russian mathematician Grigori Perelman in 2010. However, he declined the award because it was not also offered to Richard S. Hamilton, upon whose work Perelman built. In September 2026, the American artificial intelligence company OpenAI presented a proposed counterexample to the Navier...
Hungarian mathematics has a long tradition and great achievements, particularly during its golden age in the early 20th century. Hungary has produced a disproportionately large number of influential mathematicians, leading to what has been called the Hungarian phenomenon in mathematics.  History   Early history  Hungarian mathematics began its rise to prominence in the early 1800s with Jnos Bolyai, one of the creators of non-Euclidean geometry, and his father Farkas Bolyai. Though they were largely ignored during their lifetimes, Jnos Bolyai's groundbreaking work on hyperbolic geometry would later be recognized as foundational to modern mathematics. Farkas Bolyai had studied at Gttingen from 1796 to 1799, where he formed a lasting friendship with Carl Friedrich Gauss. Both were interested in the problem of parallels-the independence of Euclid's fifth postulate. When Farkas sent his son's discoveries to Gauss, he wrote back with I cannot praise this work too highly, for to do so would be to praise myself. Gauss had apparently anticipated the discovery but never published his findings, inadvertently denying Jnos the recognition he deserved during his lifetime. The Hungarian...
The Messenger of Mathematics is a defunct British mathematics journal. The founding editor-in-chief was William Allen Whitworth with Charles Taylor and volumes 1-58 were published between 1872 and 1929. James Whitbread Lee Glaisher was the editor-in-chief after Whitworth. In the nineteenth century, foreign contributions represented 4.7 of all pages of mathematics in the journal.  History  The journal was originally titled Oxford, Cambridge and Dublin Messenger of Mathematics. It was supported by mathematics students and governed by a board of editors composed of members of the universities of Oxford, Cambridge and Dublin the last being its sole constituent college, Trinity College Dublin. Volumes 1-5 were published between 1862 and 1871. It merged with The Quarterly Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics to form the Quarterly Journal of Mathematics.  References   Further reading  Sloan Evans Despeaux . Launching mathematical research without a formal mandate: The role of university-affiliated journals in Britain, 1837-1870. Historia Mathematica. 34 : 89. doi:10.1016j.hm.2006.02.005.  External links  Messenger of Mathematics, vols. 1-30 digitized...
In mathematics, specifically category theory, a doctrine is roughly a system of theories categorical analogues of fragments of logical theories which have sufficient category-theoretic structure for their models to be described as functors. For example, an algebraic theory, as invented by William Lawvere, is an example of a doctrine. The concept of doctrines was invented by Lawvere as part of his work on algebraic theories. The name is based on a suggestion by Jon Beck. A doctrine can be defined in several ways: as a 2-monad. This was Lawvere's original approach. as a 2-category the idea is that each object there amounts to a theory. As cartesian double theories, as logics, or as a class of limits.  References   Further reading  Generalised algebraic models, by Claudia Centazzo. William Lawvere, Ordinal sums and equational doctrines, Lecture Notes in Math., Vol. 80 . Lawvere, F William . Introduction to Part I. Model Theory and Topoi. Lecture Notes in Mathematics. Vol. 445. pp. 3-14. doi:10.1007BFb0061291. ISBN 978-3-540-07164-8. Equality in hyperdoctrines and comprehension schema Dagnino, Francesco Rosolini, Giuseppe . Doctrines...
A Bachelor of Mathematics is an undergraduate academic degree awarded for successfully completing a program of study in mathematics or related disciplines, such as applied mathematics, actuarial science, computational science, data analytics, financial mathematics, mathematical physics, pure mathematics, operations research, or statistics. The Bachelor of Mathematics caters to high-achieving students seeking to develop a comprehensive specialised knowledge in a field of mathematics or a high level of sophistication in the applications of mathematics. In practice, this is essentially equivalent to a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts degree with a speciality in mathematics. Relatively few institutions award Bachelor of Mathematics degrees, and the distinction between those that do and those that award B.Sc or B.A. degrees for mathematics is usually curriculum related.  List of institutions that award Bachelor of Mathematics degrees   Australia  Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland The Australian National University, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory...
The number e is a mathematical constant, approximately equal to 2.71828, that is the base of the natural logarithm and exponential function. It is sometimes called Euler's number, after the Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler, though this can invite confusion with Euler numbers, or with Euler's constant, a different constant typically denoted  displaystyle gamma  . Alternatively, e can be called Napier's constant after John Napier. The Swiss mathematician Jacob Bernoulli discovered the constant while studying compound interest. The number e is of great importance in mathematics, alongside 0, 1, , and i. All five appear in one formulation of Euler's identity e i   1  0 displaystyle eipi 10 and play important and recurring roles across mathematics. e is irrational, meaning that it cannot be represented as a ratio of integers. Moreover, like the constant , it is transcendental, meaning that it is not a root of any non-zero polynomial with rational coefficients. To 30 decimal places, the...
This page discusses a class of topological groups. For the wrapped loop of wire, see Solenoid. In mathematics, a solenoid is a compact connected topological space that may be obtained as the inverse limit of an inverse system of topological groups and continuous homomorphisms f i : S i  1  S i  i  0 displaystyle fi:Si1to Siquad forall igeq 0 where each S i displaystyle Si is a circle and fi is the map that uniformly wraps the circle S i  1 displaystyle Si1 for n i  1 displaystyle ni1 times...
In mathematics, the mediant of two fractions, generally made up of four positive integers a c displaystyle frac acquad  and b d displaystyle quad frac bdquad  is defined as a  b c  d . displaystyle quad frac abcd. That is to say, the numerator and denominator of the mediant are the sums of the numerators and denominators of the given fractions, respectively. It is sometimes called the freshman sum, as it is a common mistake in the early stages of learning about addition of fractions. Technically, this is a binary operation on valid fractions , considered as ordered pairs of appropriate integers, a priori disregarding the perspective on rational numbers as equivalence classes of...
SESI Mathematics is a project developed by FIRJAN System with the aim of improving the teaching of math for high school students. The program consists of a series of initiatives, from the organization of training courses for teachers and distribution of educational kits, to the providing of physical spaces for students of SESI Rio and SENAI Rio network, as well as for those from selected state schools. Although the project has the pretension of being expanded to other Brazilian states, nowadays it only operates in the states of Rio de Janeiro and Bahia.  History  SESI Mathematics was launched in 2012 by SESI Rio. The program counted on an initial investment of R 10 million and was created based on the Lei de Diretrizes e Bases da Educao Nacional read Law of Guidelines and Bases of National Education, motivated by the poor performance of Brazil in national and international reviews, as well as in researches that indicated a lack of skilled people to work in areas related to the exact sciences, which require mastery of mathematics. In 2013, an agreement was signed between SESI Bahia and the Government of Bahia State to extend the project to the schools of the state of Bahia...
In mathematics, two functions have a contact of order k if, at a point P, they have the same value and their first k derivatives are equal. This is an equivalence relation, whose equivalence classes are generally called jets. The point of osculation is also called the double cusp. Contact is a geometric notion it can be defined algebraically as a valuation. One speaks also of curves and geometric objects having k-th order contact at a point: this is also called osculation , generalising the property of being tangent. Here the derivatives are considered with respect to arc length. An osculating curve from a given family of curves is a curve that has the highest possible order of contact with a given curve at a given point for instance a tangent line is an osculating curve from the family of lines, and has first-order contact with the given curve an osculating circle is an osculating curve from the family of circles, and has second-order contact , etc.  Applications  Contact forms are particular differential forms of degree 1 on odd-dimensional manifolds see contact geometry. Contact transformations are related changes of coordinates...
Fangcheng sometimes written as fang-cheng or fang cheng is the title of the eighth chapter of the Chinese mathematical classic Jiuzhang suanshu The Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art composed by several generations of scholars who flourished during the period from the 10th to the 2nd century BC. This text is one of the earliest surviving mathematical texts from China. Several historians of Chinese mathematics have observed that the term fangcheng is not easy to translate exactly. However, as a first approximation it has been translated as rectangular arrays or square arrays. The term is also used to refer to a particular procedure for solving a certain class of problems discussed in Chapter 8 of The Nine Chapters book. The procedure referred to by the term fangcheng and explained in the eighth chapter of The Nine Chapters, is essentially a procedure to find the solution of systems of n equations in n unknowns and is equivalent to certain similar procedures in modern linear algebra. The earliest recorded fangcheng procedure is similar to what we now call Gaussian elimination. The fangcheng procedure was popular in ancient China and was transmitted...
In mathematics, a structure on a set refers to providing or endowing it with certain additional features e.g. an operation, relation, metric, or topology. he additional features are attached or related to the set , so as to provide it with some additional meaning or significance. A partial list of possible structures is measures, algebraic structures , topologies, metric structures , orders, graphs, events, differential structures, categories, setoids, and equivalence relations. Sometimes, a set is endowed with more than one feature simultaneously, which allows to study the interaction between the different structures more richly. For example, an ordering imposes a rigid form, shape, or topology on a set, and if a set has both a topology feature and a group feature, such that these two features are compatible in a certain way, then the structure becomes a topological group. A map between two similarly-structured sets that preserves their structure is known as a morphism, and such maps are of special interest in many fields of mathematics. Examples include homomorphisms, which preserve algebraic...
In mathematics, a separatrix is the boundary separating two modes of behaviour in a differential equation.  Examples   Simple pendulum  Consider the differential equation describing the motion of a simple pendulum: d 2  d t 2  g  sin    0. displaystyle d2theta over dt2g over ell sin theta 0. where  displaystyle ell  denotes the length of the pendulum, g displaystyle g the gravitational acceleration and  displaystyle theta  the angle between the pendulum and vertically downwards. In this system there is a conserved quantity H , which...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 523 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
VM, often written VMCMS, is a family of virtual machine operating systems used on IBM mainframes including the System370, System390, IBM Z and compatible systems. It replaced the older CP-67 that formed the basis of the CPCMS operating system. It was first released as the free Virtual Machine Facility370 for the S370 in 1972, followed by chargeable upgrades and versions that added support for new hardware. VM creates virtual machines into which a conventional operating system may be loaded to allow user programs to run. Originally, that operating system was CMS, a simple single-user system similar to DOS. VM can also be used with a number of other IBM operating systems, including large systems like MVS or VSE, which are often run on their own without VM. In other cases, VM is used with a more specialized operating system or even programs that provided many OS features. These include RSCS and MUMPS, among others.  Design  The heart of the VM architecture is the Control Program or hypervisor abbreviated CP, VM-CP and sometimes, ambiguously, VM. It runs on the physical hardware, and creates the virtual machine environment. VM-CP provides full virtualization of the physical machine...
Chaos is a small Linux distribution designed for creating ad hoc computer clusters.  About   Description  Chaos creates a basic node in an OpenMosix cluster and is typically not deployed on its own cluster builders will use feature-rich Linux distributions as a head node in a cluster to provide their application software, while the Chaos distribution runs on drone nodes to provide dumb power to the cluster. While this deployment model suits the typical cluster builder, OpenMosix is a peer-based cluster, consisting of only one type of node. All OpenMosix nodes are inherently equal and each can be, simultaneously, parent and child.  See also  List of Linux distributions Live CD List of Live CDs OpenMosix  References   External links  CHAOS homepage at Midnight Code
A supercomputer operating system is an operating system intended for supercomputers. Since the end of the 20th century, supercomputer operating systems have undergone major transformations, as fundamental changes have occurred in supercomputer architecture. While early operating systems were custom tailored to each supercomputer to gain speed, the trend has been moving away from in-house operating systems and toward some form of Linux, with it running all the supercomputers on the TOP500 list in November 2017. In 2021, top 10 computers run for instance Red Hat Enterprise Linux , or some variant of it or other Linux distribution e.g. Ubuntu. Given that modern massively parallel supercomputers typically separate computations from other services by using multiple types of nodes, they usually run different operating systems on different nodes, e.g., using a small and efficient lightweight kernel such as Compute Node Kernel or Compute Node Linux on compute nodes, but a larger system such as a Linux distribution on server and inputoutput nodes. While in a traditional multi-user computer system job scheduling is in effect a tasking problem for processing and peripheral...
gOS or good OS was an Ubuntu-based Linux distribution created by Good OS LLC, a Los Angeles-based corporation. Its CIO David Liu explained that after meeting Enlightenment and open source people, he realized that his dream to bring Web 2.0 applications into mainstream use could be achieved by creating a Linux distribution that made it easy for users to access Google and Web 2.0 applications. David Liu went on to create the Chinese Twitter clone called Wozai , leaving gOS officially defunct.  History  The company initially advertised gOS 1.0 as An alternative OS with Google Apps and other Web 2.0 apps for the modern user. This first version of gOS was based on Ubuntu 7.10 and the Enlightenment window manager E17. On January 7, 2008, a test version of gOS, intended to demonstrate the Everex CloudBook at the 2008 Consumer Electronics Show, and named gOS Rocket, was released. This version was also E17-based. The definitive second version of gOS debuted at the end February 2008, together with the launch of Everex's new CloudBook, the gBook laptop, and a new, second version of the gPC, the encore. This version was called gOS V2 Rocket, and was completely...
Coherent is a clone of the Unix operating system for IBM PC compatibles and other microcomputers, developed and sold by the now-defunct Mark Williams Company . Historically, the operating system was a proprietary product, but it became open source in 2015, released under the BSD-3-Clause license.  Development  Coherent was not Unix the Mark Williams Company had no rights to either the Unix trademark or the ATTBell Labs source code. In the early years of its existence, MWC received a visit from an ATT delegation looking to determine whether MWC was infringing on ATT Unix property. The delegation included Dennis Ritchie, who concluded that it was very hard to believe that Coherent and its basic applications were not created without considerable study of the OS code and details of its applications. However, he also stated that: looking at various corners I couldn't find anything that was copied. It might have been that some parts were written with source nearby, but at least the effort had been made to rewrite. If it came to it, I could never honestly testify that...
SHR was a community-driven Linux distribution for smartphones which was based on OpenEmbedded, org, and the freesmartphone.org framework. Several different graphical toolkits were made available, such as GTK and Qt.  Supported devices  The unstable and testing releases were released for Openmoko's Neo 1973 and FreeRunner smartphones. Later on, SHR Core supported the FreeRunner and the GTA04. SHR Core was also being ported to several devices like the HTC Dream, the Nexus S, the Palm Pre and Nokia N900 devices. with various degrees of completion.  Applications  SHR had several rudimentary applications specially made for it, like an address book software, a dialer, an SMS application and so on. It was also possible to install these applications on Debian. Many graphical Linux applications were also available like Midori and Pidgin, and it was also possible to use the terminal with the ash shell through a terminal application. Front-ends for MPlayer, and other software like FoxtrotGPS that were developed for the OpenMoko andor the distributions that ran on it were also available on SHR.  Software stack  The use of org enabled to use...
The Portable Operating System Interface is a family of standards specified by the IEEE Computer Society for maintaining compatibility between operating systems. In order to define a level of compatibility, POSI specifies many aspects of functionality that can be classified as application programming interface , command-line shell, and shell commands. Originally derived from commonly-found Unix APIs, shells, and commands partly because Unix was considered manufacturer-neutral, today many systems conform to the standard - including branded Unix systems, Unix-like systems, and many systems that were historically unrelated to Unix. The standardized user command line and scripting interface were based on the UNI System V Bourne shell. Many user-level programs, services, and utilities were also standardized, based on UNI System V versions of them, along with required program-level services including basic IO: file, terminal, and network. POSI also defines a standard threading library API which is supported by most modern operating systems. The POSI standard is developed by the Austin Group a joint working group among the IEEE, The Open...
Real-time Multitasking eecutive is a real-time operating system designed for use with the Intel 8080 and 8086 family of processors.  Overview  Intel developed iRM in the 1970s and originally released RM80 in 1976 and RM86 in 1980 to support and create demand for their processors and Multibus system platforms. The functional specification for RM86 was authored by Bruce Schafer and Miles Lewitt and was completed in the summer of 1978 soon after Intel relocated the entire Multibus business from Santa Clara, California to Aloha, Oregon. Schafer and Lewitt went on to each manage one of the two teams that developed the RM86 product for release on schedule in 1980. As of 2000, iRM is supported, maintained, and licensed worldwide by TenAsys Corporation, under an exclusive licensing arrangement with Intel. iRM is a layered design: containing a kernel, nucleus, basic IO system, extended IO system and human interface. An installation need include only the components required: intertask synchronization, communication subsystems, a filesystem, extended memory management, command shell, etc. The native filesystem is specific to iRM, but has many similarities to the original...
In computing, BIOS or the Basic InputOutput System is a type of firmware used to provide runtime services for operating systems and programs and to perform hardware initialization during the booting process . On a computer using BIOS firmware, the firmware comes pre-installed on the computer's motherboard. The name originates from the Basic InputOutput System used in the CPM operating system in 1975. The BIOS firmware was originally proprietary to the IBM PC it was reverse engineered by some companies, such as Compaq, Phoenix Technologies, AMI and others, looking to create compatible systems. The interface of that original system serves as a de facto standard. The BIOS in older PCs initializes and tests the system hardware components , and loads a boot loader from a mass storage device which then initializes a kernel. In the era of DOS, the BIOS provided BIOS interrupt calls for the keyboard, display, storage, and other inputoutput devices that standardized an interface to application programs and the operating system. More recent operating systems do not use the BIOS interrupt calls after startup. Most BIOS implementations...
Mobile Operating System MOS Russian:     is an operating system, a Soviet clone of Unix from the 1980s.  Overview  This operating system is commonly found on SM EVM minicomputers it was also ported to ES EVM and Elbrus. MOS is also used by high-end PDP-11 clones. Modifications of MOS include MNOS, DEMOS, INMOS, etc.  See also  List of Soviet computer systems  References 
Admiral John Carter son of Thomas Carter and Catherine Butler of Castlemartin Co Kildare and grandson of Henry Boyle Carter, was an officer of the Royal Navy, who saw service during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars. Carter joined the Navy in January 1798, serving aboard the 28-gun HMS Brilliant in the Mediterranean. In July Brilliant had a narrow escape from two French 44-gun frigates off Santa Cruz. He then moved aboard HMS Penelope as a midshipman, and took part in the blockade of Malta. On 30 March 1800 Penelope was one of the ships that intercepted and aided in the capture of the French 84-gun Guillaume Tell. He then took part in the campaign in Egypt, followed by service in boat actions off the French and Genoese coasts. Carter served for a time aboard HMS Victory under Vice-Admiral Lord Nelson, and in February 1805 Nelson transferred him into an acting-lieutenancy aboard the 74-gun HMS Leviathan. Admiral Lord Nelson awarded him with his sword and telescope for distinguished service under his command. Carter then took part in the pursuit of the combined Franco-Spanish fleet to the West Indies during the Trafalgar Campaign. He returned with the...
The Old Apple Tree was an apple tree in Vancouver, Washington, United States, purported to be the oldest apple tree in the Pacific Northwest. Genetic testing determined that the apples produced are unique and distantly related to the 500-year-old French Reinette variety.  History  The tree is believed to have been planted at Fort Vancouver in 1826 by British Royal Navy officer Lieutenant Aemilius Simpson from seeds obtained at a dinner party in London prior to his departure to the Pacific Northwest for the Hudson's Bay Company. It was credited with starting the apple industry in Washington state and survived several floods and the construction of nearby roads and railroads. The tree was at Old Apple Tree Park on the north side of the Columbia River and south side of State Route 14. The annual Old Apple Tree Festival in Vancouver celebrated the tree's birthday in October with giveaways of cuttings by the city forester. The apple tree, which had been in ailing health for some time, died in June 2020 at the age of 194. Although the tree's trunk was declared dead, the root system remains alive. The Old Apple Tree Research Team notes that there are saplings growing from the root...
Elections to Erewash Borough Council were held on 3 May 1979 as part of nationwide local elections.  Overall results   Erewash Borough Council - Results by Ward   Breadsall and Morley   Breaston   Cotmanhay   Dale Abbey   Derby Road East   Derby Road West   Draycott   Ilkeston Central   Ilkeston North   Ilkeston South   Kirk Hallam North   Kirk Hallam South   Little Eaton   Long Eaton Central   Nottingham Road   Ockbrook and Borrowash   Old Park   Sandiacre North   Sandiacre South   Sawley   Stanley   Victoria   West Hallam   Wilsthorpe   References 
The Munda peoples of eastern and central parts of the Indian subcontinent are any of several Munda speaking ethno-linguistic groups of Austro-asiatic language family, formerly also known as Kolarian, and spoken by about nine million people.  History  According to linguist Paul Sidwell, pre-Munda languages arrived on the coast of Odisha from Southeast Asia about 4000-3500 years ago , during the late Bronze Age, at the time of decline of the Indus Valley Civilization in Northwest India. The Munda people spread from Southeast Asia and mixed extensively with local Indian populations. Robert Parkin notes that the term Munda did not belong to the Austroasiatic lexis and is of Sanskrit origin. A popular pan-North Munda ethnonym is Kherwarian, derived from proto-Munda kher , which actually refers to the North Munda origin myth. According to Santal traditions, the first Santals were descended from a goose , giving the identity 'Kherwal' as their alternative self-designation, but nowadays the term Kherwarian is used by scholars to designate the non-Korku North Munda languages which also include Santali. Another name referring to Munda peoples that...
Alan Holdsworth born 1952 in Salford, stage name Johnny Crescendo is a British musician and disability rights activist living in Philadelphia, United States. He participated in the 1990 and 1992 Block Telethon campaign while living in the United Kingdom. In 2013, he founded the first Disability Pride event in the United States. The 2022 BBC Two docudrama Then Barbara Met Alan tells the story of Holdsworth and Barbara Lisicki and their work with the Disabled People's Direct Action Network. Holdsworth has been affected by polio and uses a wheelchair.  References   Further reading  Delgado, Kasia . Then Barbara Met Alan: How to make activism work, from a duo who changed history for people with disabilities. inews.co.uk.  External links  Johnny Crescendo on Facebook
A yacht club is a boat club specifically related to yachting.  Description  Yacht clubs are mostly located by the sea, although there some that have been established at a lake or riverside location. Yacht or sailing clubs typically have either a marina or a delimited section of the beach or shoreline with buoys marking the areas off-limits for swimmers as well as safe offshore anchorages. On shore they also include a perimeter reserved for the exclusive use of the members of the club as well as a clubhouse with attached bar, caf or restaurant where members socialize in a pleasant and informal setting. Although the terms Yacht Club and Sailing Club tend to be synonymous, some general differences regarding the recreational use of boats can be broadly outlined. Historically a Yacht Club tended to focus on a membership composed of yacht owners, including motorboats. This type of club often was extremely exclusive, attracting the aristocracy or the high class and leaving small boat owners out of the circle. On the other hand, a Sailing Club tended to focus on a membership composed exclusively of owners of sailboats, including smaller boats such as dinghies. These became very popular...
Phil Metschan was a politician and business owner in the U.S. state of Oregon, serving as treasurer of Oregon. Originally from Germany, he immigrated to the United States in 1854. He lived in Ohio, Kansas, and Colorado before traveling west to Sacramento, California in 1861. He soon moved on to Portland, Oregon, where he ran a bakery until it was destroyed by the flood of 1862. He then ran a store in Canyon City and got his start in state politics. He married Maria Catharina Schaume , a native of Germany who had immigrated in 1864, living first in San Francisco and then Canyon City. Metschan served as Oregon State Treasurer from 1891-1899, and then bought the Imperial Hotel in Portland. His son, Phil Metschan Jr., helped him run the new Imperial Hotel, built in 1910. He had nine children, including Frank F. Metschan, Edward L. Metschan, Anna Metschan Cattanach, and Lillian Metschan Flanders . Phil Metschan, Jr. was selected as the Republican nominee for governor of Oregon in 1930, after the unexpected death of nominee George W. Joseph. He lost to Julius Meier, Joseph's law partner, who ran as an independent candidate. 2...
Cognitive social structures is the focus of research that investigates how individuals perceive their own social structure e.g. members of an organization, friend group, hierarchy, company employees, etc.. It is part of social network research and uses social network analysis to understand how various factors affect one's cognitive representation of the network i.e. the individual's belief of who is connected to whom. Importantly, an individual's perception of the network may be different than reality. In fact, these differences between the perceived network and the actual network are the focus of many studies that seek insight into how we think about others and our relationships.  Overview  In 1987, David Krackhardt discussed the study of cognitive social structures in an article that defined the term and outlined its uses in social network research. Social structures are defined by a set of individual members and the relations between those members. The study of cognitive social structures also includes every member's understanding of the social structure. Thus, a cognitive social structure consisting of n people has n separate, and possibly distinct, representations...
Tom Wild was an English first-class cricketer. Wild was born in Southampton in November 1855. He made two appearances in first-class cricket for Hampshire in 1880, against the Marylebone Cricket Club and Sussex, with both matches played at Southampton. In those, he scored 40 runs at an average of 13.33. Wild died in the Bevois Valley area of Southampton in May 1921.  References   External links  Tom Wild at Cricinfo
The Guettard Range is a mountain range, 40 nautical miles long and 10 nautical miles wide, located northwest of Bowman Peninsula and between Johnston Glacier and Irvine Glacier, in the southeastern extremity of Palmer Land, Antarctica.  Location  The Guettard Range is in southeast Palmer Land, in the base of the Antarctic Peninsula. It runs in a south-southeast direction between the Irvine Glacier to the west and the Johnston Glacier to the east. It terminates in the Bowman Peninsula between Gardner Inlet and Nantucket Inlet on the Lassiter Coast of the Weddell Sea. The Latady Mountains are west of the Irvine Glacier, and the Hutton Mountains are east of the Johnson Glacier. The Playfair Mountains are to the northeast. A largely featureless ice field is to the northwest. Features of the range, from north to south, include Mount Laudon, Johnston Spur, Mount Owen, Kelsey Cliff, Mount Lampert and Mount Mull.  Exploration and name  The Guettard Range was photographed from the air by the Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition , 1947-48. It was mapped from United States Geological Survey surveys and United States Navy...
SJH may refer to:  Hospitals  Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi, India St. James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland St. John's Hospital St. Joseph's Hospital  Other uses  Sahja railway station, Punjab, Pakistan Shanghai Jiading Huilong F.C., a Chinese association football club Stephen Joseph Harper , prime minister of Canada from 2006 to 2015
Johannes Rahder , Dutch Orientalist, professor of Japanese at the University of Leiden and Yale University .  Biography  Rahder was born in Lubuk Begalung, the Dutch East Indies, now a subdistrict of Padang, where his father was governor of the west coast of Sumatra. The fact that he requested as a birthday present a library when he was five years old suggests that he was a precocious child. He earned his doctorate at the University of Utrecht for an edition of the text of Daabhmikastra . Because of his interest in Buddhism and linguistics, he not only studied Sanskrit and Pali, but also Chinese, Japanese and many other languages. After working for several years on the Buddhist Dictionary Hbgirin published by the Maison Franco-Japonaise in Tokyo, he was appointed Professor of Sanskrit, Avestan, Old Persian and principles of Indo-Germanic linguistics at the University of Utrecht . In 1933, during one of his many visits to the Far East, Rahder shared a trip on the Trans-Siberian Railway with poet Langston Hughes who characterized Rahder as a famous authority on obscure Oriental languages who, having lost...
Jayden Nguyen is a professional Australian rules footballer with the Essendon Football Club in the Australian Football League .  AFL career  Nguyen was selected by Essendon in the 2025 rookie draft as a Next Generation Academy selection. During the 2025 season, he made his debut against Sydney in round 21, becoming the first player of Vietnamese descent to play in the AFL. After impressing in the senior team in his first three matches, Nguyen signed a one year contract extension to remain at Essendon in 2026.  Statistics  Updated to the end of round 22, 2026.  References   External links  Jayden Nguyen's profile on the official website of the Essendon Football Club Jayden Nguyen at AustralianFootball.com Jayden Nguyen's playing statistics from AFL Tables
Badrunnesa Dalia Bengali:   known as Dalia is a Bangladeshi mainstream Nazrul Sangeet and Rabindra Sangeet singer, performer and a music teacher. She is noted for her versatility as a multi-genre artist .  Early life and background  Dalia was born in Narsingdi in 1970. Her elder brother Asiful Huda is a cartoonist in Bangladesh. Her younger brother Sumon Rahat is also a singer. In 1988, Dalia married BCS bureaucrat Al-Nuri Faizur Reza. Dalia is a mother of two sons Tamim Reza and Omer Reza. She took lessons in classical music from Ustad Mofizul Islam and Abinash Goswami. Later, she learned Nazrul Sangeet from Sudhin Das and Sohrab Hossain.  Career  Dalia has been a singer of Bangladesh Betar since 1996. She has been an enlisted artist of Bangladesh Television since 1988. She has performed as part of many programs organized by cultural organizations, institutions and academies in Bangladesh, including Bangla Academy, Shilpakala Academy, Chhayanaut, Nazrul Institute, Nazrul Academy, Nazrul Sangeet Shilpi Parishad , Bangladesh Sangeet Sangathan Samannay Parishad , Srijon , Bangladesh Rabindra Sangeet Shilpi Shangshad...
Royal Air Force Shawbury, otherwise known as RAF Shawbury, is a Royal Air Force station near the village of Shawbury in Shropshire in the West Midlands of England.  History   The First World War  The station at Shawbury was first used for military flying training in 1917 by the Royal Flying Corps. No. 29 Wing formed on 1 September 1917 with three training squadrons, No. 10 Squadron, No. 29 Squadron and No. 67 Squadron. Several different types of aircraft were operated which caused difficulties with training and maintenance. Two of the squadrons combined to form 9 Training Depot Station on 1 March 1918, the other moving to Gloucestershire. Training continued on a more organised basis until the end of the war. The airfield closed in May 1920 when the strength of the RAF was drastically reduced. The hangars and other buildings were demolished and the land was returned to agricultural use.  The Second World War  In February 1938 the station was reactivated as a training establishment, firstly used by No. 11 Service Flying Training School and an Aircraft Storage Unit which was operated by No. 27 Maintenance Unit. The airfield also had...
Chitrakonda is a Vidhan Sabha constituency of Malkangiri district, Odisha. Map of Chitrakonda Constituency This constituency includes Balimela, Khairaput block, Kudumulugumma block, Maithili block and 15 Gram panchayats Chitapari-III, Chitrakonda, Doraguda, Dudameta, Gunthawada, Kamwada, Kapatuti, Mandapali, Mariwada, Nilakamberu, Nuaguda, Old Chimitapali, Potrel, Tarlakota and Tunnel-Camp of Korukunda block.  Elected members  Since its formation in 1974, 12 elections were held till date. Elected members from the Chitrakonda constituency are:  Election results   2024  Voting were held on 13th May 2024 in 1st phase of Odisha Assembly Election  4th phase of Indian General Election. Counting of votes was on 4th June 2024. In 2024 election, Indian National Congress candidate Mangu Khilla defeated Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Dambaru Sisa by a margin of 9,159 votes.  2019  In 2019 election, Biju Janata Dal candidate Purna Chandra Baka defeated Indian National Congress candidate Laxmipriya Nayak by a margin of 2,545 votes.  2014  In 2014 election, Biju Janata Dal candidate Dambaru Sisa defeated Indian National Congress candidate Sunadhar Kakari by a margin of 24...
Nathan Wayne Munson is an English former footballer who played in the Football League as a goalkeeper for Colchester United. He has also represented a number of non-League clubs, and has also served as goalkeeping coach at Needham Market.  Career  Born in Colchester, Gilberd School student Munson was brought through the Colchester United youth system and was handed his first-team debut by Roy McDonough at the end of the 1992-93 season. The game against Wrexham finished 4-3 to the Welsh club, conceding an 89th-minute winner from Steve Watkin on 8 May 1993. His next appearance for the club came in bizarre circumstances as Colchester became the first club to have two goalkeepers sent off in the same fixture. The game against Hereford United on 16 October 1993 saw John Keeley sent off in the 43rd minute, the U's already 1-0 down from a Chris Pike goal. Roy McDonough covered in goal until half time, where he conceded another goal to Pike. Munson was brought on at half time but was sent off in the 68th minute after conceding to Chris Fry and Pike once again, giving him a hat-trick, scoring against three different goalkeepers in the same game. McDonough returned...
Shershah Syed is a Pakistani physician and surgeon, known for his work in obstetrics and maternal health. He was involved in providing emergency medical assistance to victims of the 2010 Pakistan floods. He was the president of the Society of Obstetricians  Gynecologists of Pakistan from 2007 to 2010, He is the current president of the International Society of Fistula Surgeons and also the Pakistan National Forum on Women's Health .  Career  After MBBS from Dow Medical College, he moved to the UK and trained and worked in Ireland to become an obstetrician and gynecologist. He attained an MRCOG before returning to Pakistan where he started working for the Government of Sindh and was posted as assistant professor at Dow Medical College. He subsequently joined Sobhraj Maternity Hospital as MS. After a short stint at the Nawabshah Medical College, he joined the Qatar Hospital in Orangi Town. Shershah has worked for the Pakistan Medical Association, Pakistan Medical Dental Council, Society of Obstetrician and Gynecologists Pakistan , Amnesty International, and the International Society of Fistula Surgeons . In 2012, his book, Vision: Not Just...
The Technology Coalition is an American nonprofit industry alliance of technology companies dedicated to combating online child sexual exploitation and abuse . Founded in 2006 and headquartered in Washington, D.C., the organization was substantially reconstituted in 2020 under a strategic plan called Project Protect, which transformed it from a small peer network into a more active body with dedicated professional staff, a multi-million-dollar research fund, and formal partnerships with international child protection organizations. As of 2026, it has 60 member companies, including major technology firms such as Google, Meta, Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, and Snap.  Background  The Technology Coalition was established in 2006 as a 501 nonprofit, a business league classification under U.S. tax law, incorporated in Virginia, by a group of technology companies seeking a shared forum for collaboration on child safety. INHOPE, the global network of internet hotlines combating online child sexual abuse material , has described its formation as driven by a collective desire among companies to share expertise and address challenges that...
Mookkannoor is a village in the Ernakulam district in the Indian state of Kerala. The nearest city is Angamaly . The nearest airport is Cochin International Airport .  Demographics  As per 2011 India census, Mookkannoor had a population of 19,009 with 9,399 males and 9,610 females. People of Mookkannoor are known for culture and social responsibility. They have a very helpful nature, and welcoming attitude towards visitors. The Catholic religious congregation of St. Therese was founded here. The Brothers of that community are engaged in various religious and social activities including healthcare, technical training and education in Mookkannoor today. Their hospital is a major centre of medical care and nursing education. Residents of Mookkannoor and nearby areas like Manjapra, Koratty, Karukutty, Palissery, Thuravoor, Anappara, Kidangoor, Thabor are getting medical care at this hospital. Mookkannoor is a small business and cultural hub for people of neighbouring areas. The Panchayath office, Village office, Post office, Agriculture office and Electricity office, MAGJM hospital are located in the heart of the village. Mookkannoor hosts the best self-financing...
The Ministry of Technology was a department of the government of the United Kingdom, sometimes abbreviated as MinTech. The Ministry of Technology was established by the incoming government of Harold Wilson in October 1964 as part of Wilson's ambition to modernise the state for what he perceived to be the needs of the 1960s. The pledge was included in the Labour Party's 1964 general election manifesto: A Labour Government will .. up a Ministry of Technology to guide and stimulate a major national effort to bring advanced technology and new processes into the industry.  History   Foundation  Wilson chose to appoint Frank Cousins, General Secretary of the Transport and General Workers Union, who had not previously sat in Parliament. Cousins had played a significant role in supporting Wilson's campaign to become leader of the Labour Party. C. P. Snow was created Baron Snow of Leicester so that he could play the role of parliamentary secretary in the House of Lords for the ministry, a role he carried out from October 1964 until April 1966. Professor Patrick Blackett wrote an outline, The Case for a Ministry of Technology in September 1964 and worked with Snow, Cousins...
Data technology is the technology connected to areas such as martech or adtech. Data technology sector includes solutions for data management, and products or services that are based on data generated by both human and machines. DataTech is an emerging industry that uses Artificial Intelligence, Big Data analysis and Machine Learning algorithms to improve business activities in various sectors, such as digital marketing, or business analysis .  Key areas  Data technology has been used to manage big data sets, build solutions for data management and integrate data from various sources to discover new business or analytical insights from collected information. Growing global amount of generated data the number is forecast to reach 163 zettabytes in 2025 determines spendings on technologies that help control data assets. The big data market is expected to reach 156.72 billion by 2026. Spendings on data, including data technologies, in digital marketing reach 26.0 B in 2019 globally. Data technologies are developed to help manage data generated by human or by machines, which will be 200 billion by 2020. Data technologies...
Uber Technologies, Inc. is an American multinational transportation company that provides ride-hailing services, courier services, food delivery, and freight transport. It is headquartered in San Francisco, California, and operates in approximately 70 countries and 15,000 cities worldwide. It is the largest ridesharing company worldwide with over 202 million monthly active users and 10 million active drivers and couriers. It coordinates an average of 42 million trips and delivery orders per day, and has coordinated 72 billion trips and delivery orders since its inception in 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2025, the company had a take rate revenue as a percentage of gross bookings of 29.9 for mobility services and 19.2 for food delivery. The company has launched or is in the process of launching robotaxi services in several cities worldwide in partnership with operators, software designers, and car manufacturers including Lucid Motors, Nuro, Baidu, Pony.ai, Avride, Nissan, Rivian, Zoox, Stellantis, Wayve, and Nvidia .  History  In 2009, Garrett Camp, a co-founder of StumbleUpon, came up with the idea to create Uber to make it easier and cheaper...
EFI Technology Inc. founded by Graham Western in October 1988 is an independent high-performance automotive electronics engineering company based in Phoenix, Arizona. The company is well recognized for innovative ideas, advanced digital electronics and software for both the aerospace and racing industries. After earning a master's degree in engineering from Cranfield University in Bedfordshire, England, Graham Western gained several years experience developing Formula 1 and Indy Car engine management systems while working at Cosworth Engineering. In 1987 he moved to Torrance, California and worked as an engineer for Michael Andretti's Indy car team prior to founding EFI Technology Inc. in 1988.  Corporate history  The company has a strong racing background introducing its first fully user programmable ECU in 1988 which was adopted by Pontiac Motorsports for its IMSA racing program. The products success led to interest from several other engine manufacturers and the company expanded its product line designing additional systems for the Automotive, Off-road and Marine industries. In 1990, the company was contracted by TRD to develop an ECU for its 503E engine program. The 503E was...
Brio Technology was a San Francisco Bay area software company cofounded in 1984 by Yorgen Edholm and Katherine Glassey. The company is best known for their business intelligence software systems, starting with DataPivot on the Apple Macintosh. Brio Software was acquired by Hyperion in 2003. Hyperion was in turn acquired by Oracle in 2007. The Hyperion performance management software became the basis of the current Oracle Enterprise Performance Management solution which is still offered today as Oracle EPM Cloud. The Brio Technology products were offered as part of the Oracle Business Intelligence solutions for a time but was eventually deprecated in favour of Oracle's business intelligence solution that was acquired separately from Siebel in 2006. Consequently, the ever shrinking user base of Brio Technology is limited to those customers who purchased Brio products years ago.  History  Brio Technology was founded in San Francisco in 1984 as a consulting company. It made money early by doing contract work for Metaphor Corporation and performing contract programming.  Business intelligence software  By 1990, Brio had developed its first product, Data Prism, a database...
Intel Active Management Technology is hardware and firmware for remote out-of-band management of select business computers, running on the Intel Management Engine, a microprocessor subsystem not exposed to the user, intended for monitoring, maintenance, updating, and repairing systems. Out-of-band or hardware-based management is different from software-based management and software management agents. Hardware-based management works at a different level from software applications and uses a communication channel that is different from software-based communication which is through the software stack in the operating system. Hardware-based management does not depend on the presence of an OS or a locally installed management agent. Hardware-based management has been available on IntelAMD-based computers in the past, but it has largely been limited to auto-configuration using DHCP or BOOTP for dynamic IP address allocation and diskless workstations, as well as wake-on-LAN for remotely powering on systems. AMT is not intended to be used by itself it is intended to be used alongside a software management application. It gives a...
Cleveland Institute of Electronics was a privately held, for-profit, distance learning technical college located in Cleveland, Ohio, United States. CIE permanently closed on September 30, 2022. CIE offered Diplomas and Certificates from a variety of electronics and computer technology programs. The school was certified through the Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools to offer post secondary programs of electronics technology, computer technology and electronic engineering technology.  History  The Institute was established in 1934 by Carl E. Smith under the name Smith Practical Radio Institute to provide correspondence learning courses in the field of Radio and Electronics, and has attracted an international student body since its inception. In 1972, enrollment reached 40,000 students from 70 countries. In 1992, a wholly owned subsidiary, World College, was added to CIE, but this subsidiary college has since closed in Summer of 2014. CIE permanently closed on September 30, 2022.  Innovations  In 1956, Cleveland Institute of Electronics conceptualized and patented its Auto-Programmed method, a new approach to curriculum presentation. In the 1960s, Carl...
Zhuoyu Technology , formerly known as DJI Automotive, is a Chinese autonomous driving technology company specializing in advanced driver-assistance systems and full-stack self-developed core components for passenger vehicles. The company was originally established as DJI's automotive division in 2016 before being spun off as an independent entity in 2023.  History  Zhuoyu Technology traces its origins to DJI's internal automotive division, which was established in 2016 as a project team focused on smart driving technology research and development. In 2023, the division was formally spun off from DJI and operated independently. In June 2024, the company officially adopted Zhuoyu as its business brand name alongside a new logo. In September 2025, FAW Group acquired 35.8 of Zhuoyu through capital increase and share purchase, becoming the company's largest single shareholder and jointly controlling Zhuoyu with DJI's affiliate New Territory, which held 34.85 of shares after the transaction. Prior to this, BYD and SAIC also held minority stakes in Zhuoyu through their investment entities.  Technology  Zhuoyu's core product is the Chengxing Platform ...
The Adaptive Versatile Engine Technology program was an aircraft engine development program run by the United States Air Force with the goal of developing an efficient adaptive cycle, or variable cycle engine for next generation military aircraft the technology is designed to be scalable, with initial demonstrators expected to be in the 20,000 lbf thrust class. In 2012 the program was succeeded by the Adaptive Engine Technology Demonstrator program work continued in 2016 under the Adaptive Engine Transition Program , which focused on developing and testing a 45,000 lbf thrust class adaptive cycle engine for potential re-engining of the tri-service F-35 multirole strike fighter. A subsequent Next Generation Adaptive Propulsion program was also launched for a related 35,000 lbf thrust class engine to power F-47 crewed air superiority fighter as part of the Next Generation Air Dominance family of systems.  Objective  The objective of ADVENT is to develop an engine that is optimized for several design points, rather than the traditional single point. Instead of having an engine that is designed solely for high speed like many...
A technology evangelist is someone who builds a critical mass of support for a specific technology, and then establishes it as a technical standard in a market that is subject to network effects. The word evangelism is borrowed from the context of religious evangelism due to the similarity of sharing information about a particular concept with the intention of having others adopt that concept. This is typically accomplished by showcasing the potential uses and benefits of a technology to help others understand how they can use it for themselves.  Target areas  Platform evangelism is one target of technology evangelism, in which the vendor of a two-sided platform attempts to accelerate the production of complementary goods by independent developers e.g., during its early years, Facebook worked on creating an ecosystem of third party developers, encouraging them to create games or develop mobile apps that could enhance users' experiences with Facebook. Professional technology evangelists are often employed by firms seeking to establish their technologies as de facto standards. Their work could also entail the training of personnel, including top managers so that they acquire skills...
Trump Media  Technology Group Corp. is an American media and technology company headquartered in Sarasota, Florida. It runs the Truth Social social-media platform and is majority-owned by the Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust. Founded by Andy Litinsky and Wes Moss in 2021, it went public on March 26, 2024, after merging with Digital World Acquisition Corp. , a special-purpose acquisition company . In December 2025, Trump Media  Technology Group had a market cap of US3.65 billion. By May 2026, after two quarters reporting large losses , the market cap was around 2.47bn. The company said it had ended the year with 2.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments.  History  President Donald Trump was banned from Twitter on January 8, 2021, in response to the January 6 United States Capitol attack. In May, the then-former president unveiled a website, From the Desk of Donald J. Trump, which he said he would use to spread his thoughts it was shut down within a month. Meanwhile, the Trump Media  Technology Group was incorporated in February 2021, and on September 3, 2021, Digital World Acquisition Corp. DWAC...
Zebra Technologies Corporation , commonly known as Zebra, is an American multinational technology conglomerate corporation, specializing in smart data capture systems. As of 2025, Zebra holds nearly 8,000 patents and patent applications worldwide. Zebra stock has been listed on the NASDAQ since its initial public offering in 1991.  History   20th century  Zebra was incorporated in 1969 as Data Specialties Incorporated, a manufacturer of high-speed electromechanical products. The company changed its focus to specialty on-demand labeling and ticketing systems in 1982 and became Zebra Technologies Corporation in 1986. Zebra became a publicly traded company on the NASDAQ stock exchange in 1991. In 1986, Zebra acquired Qwint Systems. In 1998, Zebra Technologies merged with Eltron International, Inc.  21st century  In 2000, Comtec Information Systems was acquired by Zebra Technologies, followed in 2003 by the acquisition of Atlantek, Inc., which was a manufacturer of photo ID printers. In 2004, the company expanded into RFID smart label manufacturing. In the following years, Zebra also acquired Swecoin, WhereNet Corp, Proveo...
The Active Denial System is a directed-energy weapon developed by the U.S. military, designed for area denial, perimeter security and crowd control. Informally, the weapon is also called the heat ray since it works by heating the surface of targets, such as the skin of targeted human beings. Raytheon had marketed a reduced-range version of this technology. The ADS was deployed in 2010 with the United States military in the Afghanistan War, but was withdrawn without seeing combat. On August 20, 2010, the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department announced its intent to use this technology within the homeland to control incarcerated people in the Pitchess Detention Center in Los Angeles, stating its intent to use it in operational evaluation in situations such as breaking up prisoner fights. As of 2014, the ADS was only a vehicle-mounted weapon, though U.S. Marines and police were both working on portable versions. ADS was developed under the sponsorship of the Department of Defense Non-Lethal Weapons Program with the Air Force Research Laboratory as the lead agency. In 2014, there were reports that Russia and China were developing their own versions of the Active Denial System. 2...
Design technology, or D.T.,  is the study, design, development, application, implementation, support and management of computer and non-computer based technologies for the express purpose of communicating product design intent and constructability. Design technology can be applied to the problems encountered in construction, operation and maintenance of a product. At times there is cross-over between D.T. and Information Technology, whereas I.T. is primarily focused on overall network infrastructure, hardware and software requirements, and implementation, D.T. is specifically focused on supporting, maintaining and training design and engineering applications and tools and working closely with I.T. to provide necessary infrastructure, for the most effective use of these applications and tools. Within the building design, construction and maintenance industry , the product is the building and the role of D.T., is the effective application of technologies within all phases and aspects of building process. D.T. processes have adopted Building Information Modeling to quicken construction, design and facilities management using technology...
Leading Technology, Inc., was an American computer company based in Beaverton, Oregon, and active from 1985 to 1992. It sold IBM PC-compatible computer systems, monitors, and other peripherals supplied by original equipment manufacturers in Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan. In 1992, the company was purchased by VTech of Hong Kong.  History  Leading Technology, Inc., was founded by Pat Terrell and Rick Terrell. Pat had previously founded and ran Byte Shop Northwest-the Pacific Northwest operations of the Byte Shop computer retailer licensed from Paul Terrell-from 1976 until 1985, when it was acquired by PacTel Systems, a subsidiary of Pacific Telesis based in San Francisco, California. After being let go from Byte Shop Northwest in June 1986, Pat Terrell discussed founding Leading Technology upon learning that a former employee of his had founded a consumer electronics exporting company in Hong Kong, in which he promptly purchased a significant stake. His numerous business contacts earned while running Byte Shop Northwest combined with his newfound contacts in Hong Kong gave Terrell the idea to found an importer of computer products. In late 1985, he co-founded Leading Technology...
Lens Technology Co., Ltd. is a Chinese precision manufacturing company that produces glass, ceramic, metal, and sapphire components for consumer electronics and automotive interaction systems. Its customers include multinational electronics and automotive manufacturers. Lens Technology is listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and completed a secondary listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2025.  History  Lens Technology was founded in 1993 by Zhou Qunfei. The company initially manufactured watch glass before expanding into mobile phone cover glass as demand for touchscreen devices grew. The company expanded during the 2000s and 2010s through vertical integration, automation, and in-house equipment development. It went public on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange in 2015 and completed a Hong Kong listing in 2025.  Products and processes  Lens Technology's manufacturing areas include: Chemically strengthened glass and ion-exchange processing CNC machining of glass and structural components Optical and functional coatings, including anti-fingerprint and anti-reflection coatings Printing and surface decoration Ultra-thin glass and components for foldable...
The Office of Technology Assessment was an office of the United States Congress that operated from 1974 to 1995. OTA's purpose was to provide congressional members and committees with objective and authoritative analysis of the complex scientific and technical issues of the late 20th century, i.e. technology assessment. It was a leader in practicing and encouraging delivery of public services in innovative and inexpensive ways, including early involvement in the distribution of government documents through electronic publishing. Its model was widely copied around the world. The OTA was authorized in 1972 and received its first funding in fiscal year 1974. It was defunded at the end of 1995, following the 1994 mid-term elections which led to Republican control of the Senate and the House. House Republican legislators characterized the OTA as wasteful and hostile to GOP interests. Princeton University hosts The OTA Legacy site, which holds the complete collection of OTA publications along with additional materials that illuminate the history and impact of the agency. On July 23, 2008 the Federation of American Scientists launched a similar archive that includes interviews and...
Skyverse Technology Skyverse Chinese:  pinyin: Zhngk Fic is a partially state-owned publicly listed Chinese company that engages in the development and sale of equipment for testing and measuring semiconductors.  Background  In 2010, Chen Lu returned to China from the U.S. after obtaining his doctorate from Brown University and working for Rudolph Technologies and KLA-Tencor. He worked at The Institute of Microelectronics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences where he headed an optical instruments and equipment project. In 2014, the project was spun-out as the company, Skyverse. Chen and his team from the institute moved from Beijing to Shenzhen to set up the company. Shenzhen was selected as it was a business cluster for semiconductor equipment companies. Investors of the company include Huawei, Shenzhen Capital Group and SDIC Venture Capital. Partnerships of Skyverse include Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Yangtze Memory Technologies, Silan Microelectronics, and Tongfu Microelectronics. In 2019, Skyverse started selling its chip semiconductor testing equipment to major Chinese chipmakers partially due to trade tensions with the U.S. It aims to take...
4G refers to the fourth generation of cellular network technology, introduced in the late 2000s and early 2010s. Compared to preceding third-generation technologies, 4G has been designed to support all-IP communications and broadband services, and eliminates circuit switching in voice telephony. It also has considerably higher data bandwidth compared to 3G, enabling a variety of data-intensive applications such as high-definition media streaming and the expansion of Internet of Things applications. The earliest deployed technologies marketed as 4G were Long-Term Evolution , developed by the 3GPP group, and Mobile Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access , based on IEEE specifications. These provided significant enhancements over previous 3G and 2G.  Technical overview  In November 2008, the International Telecommunication Union-Radio communications sector specified a set of requirements for 4G standards, named the International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced specification, setting peak speed requirements for 4G service at 100 megabits per second for high mobility communication...
Shenzhen Microgate Technology Co., Ltd. , known as Microgate Technology is a material and device design as well manufacturing integrated magnetic device and RF component IDM company, headquartered in Shenzhen. The company primarily engages in the RD, and design of electronic component materials and devices. Its portfolio ranges from magnetic components, radio frequency components, to optical devices. Microgate was listed on the ChiNext board of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange on May 23, 2012.  History  Microgate Technology was founded on Mar. 14, 2001, initially focusing on low-temperature co-fired ceramics and chip components. In Oct. 2007, it was overall restructured into a joint-stock company. Then, listed on the ChiNext board of Shenzhen Stock Exchange on May 23, 2012, whose registered capital is USD 887.59 million. Since 2015, the company involved-in soft-magnetic composite alloy materials and amorphous, nanocrystalline magnetic glass research and study, Based on the material base, the large-scale design and production of high-power molded inductors, TLVRs, planar transformers, PFC inductors with an IDM model being manufactured. In recent years, Microgate...
Data engineering is a software engineering approach to the building of data systems, to enable the collection and usage of data. This data is usually used to enable subsequent analysis and data science, which often involves machine learning. Making the data usable usually involves substantial computing and storage, as well as data processing.  History  Around the 1970s1980s the term information engineering methodology was created to describe database design and the use of software for data analysis and processing. These techniques were intended to be used by database administrators and by systems analysts based upon an understanding of the operational processing needs of organizations for the 1980s. In particular, these techniques were meant to help bridge the gap between strategic business planning and information systems. A key early contributor often called the father of information engineering methodology was the Australian Clive Finkelstein, who wrote several articles about it between 1976 and 1980, and also co-authored an influential Savant Institute report on it with James Martin. Over the next few years, Finkelstein continued work in a more business-driven...
The Chinese semiconductor industry, including integrated circuit design and manufacturing, forms a major part of mainland China's electric technology industry. China's semiconductor industry consists of a wide variety of companies, from integrated device manufacturers to pure-play foundries, fabless semiconductor companies and OSAT companies. Integrated device manufacturers design and manufacture integrated circuits. Pure-play foundries only manufacture devices for other companies, without designing them, while fabless semiconductor companies only design devices. Examples of Chinese IDMs are YMTC and CMT examples of Chinese pure-play foundries are SMIC, Hua Hong Semiconductor and Wingtech examples of Chinese fabless companies are Zhaoxin, HiSilicon, Loongson and UNISOC and examples of Chinese OSAT companies are JCET, Huatian Technology and Tongfu Microelectronics.  Overview  China is currently the world's largest semiconductor market in terms of consumption. In 2020, China represented 53.7 of worldwide chip sales, or 239.45 billion out of 446.1 billion. However, a large percentage are imported from multinational suppliers. In 2020, imports took up over 83 199.7...
Hurdle technology is a method of ensuring that pathogens in food products can be eliminated or controlled. This means the food products will be safe for consumption, and their shelf life will be extended. Hurdle technology usually works by combining more than one approach. These approaches can be thought of as hurdles the pathogen has to overcome if it is to remain active in the food. The right combination of hurdles can ensure all pathogens are eliminated or rendered harmless in the final product. Hurdle technology has been defined by Leistner as an intelligent combination of hurdles which secures the microbial safety and stability as well as the organoleptic and nutritional quality and the economic viability of food products. The organoleptic quality of the food refers to its sensory properties, that is its look, taste, smell and texture. Examples of hurdles in a food system are high temperature during processing, low temperature during storage, increasing the acidity, lowering the water activity or redox potential, or the presence of preservatives. According to the type of pathogens and how risky they are, the intensity of the hurdles can be adjusted individually to meet...
Alien Technology, founded in 1994, is a manufacturer of RFID technology. The company is headquartered in San Jose, California, having the Alien RFID Solutions Center, in the Dayton, Ohio area, and sales offices in the United States, Europe and Asia. As of August 2010, Alien employs approximately 235 people. Alien produces Class 1 and Class 1 Gen 2 RFID inlays, tags, and readers designed for use in manufacturing lines, warehouses, distribution centers, and retail stores.  History  The company was founded in 1994 by John Stephen Smith.  Products  Due to potential applications in a wide variety of mass-produced electronic devices, the company received funding and technical support from a number of other manufacturers, such as DuPont Displays and Philips Components. The company has established relationships with the United States Department of Defense, The Gillette Company, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft, Zebra Technologies, and Paxar. Products from Alien Technology include handheld RFID readers, RFID antennas, and RFID accessories.  References   External links  Official website Alien Technology - LinkedIn
Creative technology is a broadly interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary field combining computing, design, art and the humanities. The field of creative technology encompasses art, digital product design, digital media or an advertising and media made with a software-based, electronic andor data-driven engine. Examples include multi-sensory experiences made using computer graphics, video production, digital music, digital cinematography, virtual reality, augmented reality, video editing, software engineering, 3D printing, the Internet of Things, CADCAM and wearable technology. In the artistic field, new media art and internet art are examples of work being done using creative technology. Performances, interactive installations and other immersive experiences take museum-going to the next level and may serve as research processes for humans' artistic and emotional integration with machines. Some believe that creativity has the potential to be revolutionised with technology, or view the field of creative technology as helping to disrupt the way people today interact with computers, and usher in a more integrated, immersive experience.  Description  Creative technology has been...
Mattson Technology Inc. is an American technology company which was founded in 1988 by Brad Mattson and is based in Fremont, California. The company is partly state-owned by the municipal government of Beijing. The company is both a manufacturer and supplier in the market of semiconductor equipment globally. Its main products are dry strip system, rapid thermal processing, as well as etching. The company provides products for customers and manufacturers such as foundries, memory and logic devices. In December 2013, Mattson Technology announced its paradigmE P, next-generation etch system, extending the company's etch technology and enabling chipmakers to address processing challenges for leading-edge, three-dimensional semiconductor manufacturing. This new system has been qualified in November by advanced DRAM device technologies. In May 2016, Mattson Technology and Beijing E-Town jointly announced that the previously announced acquisition of Mattson by E-Town had been completed. Allen Lu has served as the company's CEO and President since October 2016. In 2022, Applied Materials sued Mattson Technology, alleging theft of trade secrets. In November 2023, Mattson...
Health technology assessment is a multidisciplinary process that uses systematic and explicit methods to evaluate the properties and effects of a health technology. Health technology is conceived as any intervention test, device, medicine, vaccine, procedure, program at any point in its lifecycle pre-market, regulatory approval, post-market, disinvestment. The purpose of HTA is to inform decision-making in order to promote an equitable, efficient, and high-quality health system. It has other definitions including a method of evidence synthesis that considers evidence regarding clinical effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness and, when broadly applied, includes social, ethical, and legal aspects of the use of health technologies. The precise balance of these inputs depends on the purpose of each individual HTA. A major use of HTAs is in informing reimbursement and coverage decisions by insurers and national health systems, in which case HTAs should include benefit-harm assessment and economic evaluation. And a multidisciplinary process that summarises information about the medical, social, economic and ethical issues related to the use of a health technology in a systematic...
Formosa Plastics Group is a titular Taiwanese conglomerate of diverse interests, including biotechnology, petrochemical processing and production of electronics components. The group was founded by Wang Yung-ching and his brother Wang Yung-tsai, and is chaired by Wong Wen-yuan. Despite its name, its holdings include several companies prominent in the high tech electronics sector, including VIA Technologies and Nanya Technology Corporation.  History  Formosa Plastics Group was formed in 1954 to reflect vertical integration of the PVC manufacturing process by the Formosa Plastics Corporation . Nan Ya Plastics Processing Corp. was formed to purchase PVC resins produced by FPC. A third member of the group, New Eastern Plastics Product, was formed to manufacture those processed resins into consumer goods. Nan Ya and New Eastern were later merged into a single entity, Nan Ya Plastics Corp., and upstream integration was achieved in the 1990s through the construction of an ethylene-producing naphtha cracking plant and a coal-burning power plant. In Taiwan, FPG has also diversified into many other fields, including textiles, electronics...
Home automation or domotics is building automation for a home. A home automation system will monitor andor control home attributes such as lighting, climate, entertainment systems, and appliances. It may also include home security such as access control and alarm systems. The phrase smart home refers to home automation devices that have internet access. Home automation, a broader category, includes any device that can be monitored or controlled via wireless radio signals, not just those having internet access. When connected with the Internet, home sensors and activation devices are an important constituent of the Internet of Things . A home automation system typically connects controlled devices to a central smart home hub . The user interface for control of the system uses either wall-mounted terminals, tablet or desktop computers, a mobile phone application, or a Web interface that may also be accessible off-site through the Internet.  History  Early home automation began with labor-saving machines. Self-contained electric or gas powered home appliances became viable in the 1900s with the introduction of electric power distribution and...
Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology or SZABIST University is a multi-campus private university with campuses in various major cities of Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates. Its main campus is located in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.  Overview  Begun in 1995 under the vision of its founder Pakistani Former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and led by Dr. Javaid Laghari as its first president and project director, SZABIST University is honored and named in remembrance of Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. SZABIST is a non-profit and Chartered Institute of Science and Technology, Established through Legislative Act of the Sindh Assembly . SZABIST has been awarded the status of University in September 2023 through amendment in Sindh Act No. I of 2023. The university offers undergraduate and post-graduate degrees. It is a member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities of the United Kingdom and the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, as well as other international education associations. SZABIST University is regarded as one of the more notable private research institutions of higher learning in Pakistan and ranked...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 535 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
PVCS Version Manager originally named Polytron Version Control System is a software package by Serena Software Inc., for version control of source code files. PVCS follows the locking approach to concurrency control it has no merge operator built-in but does, nonetheless, have a separate merge command. However PVCS can also be configured to support several users simultaneously attempting to edit the file in this case the second chronological committer will have a branch created for them so that both modifications, instead of conflicting, will appear as parallel histories for the same file. This is unlike Concurrent Versions System and Subversion where the second committer needs to first merge the changes via the update command and then resolve conflicts before actually committing. Originally developed by Don Kinzer and published by Polytron in 1985, through a history of acquisitions and mergers, the product was at times owned by Sage Software of Rockville , Maryland , Intersolv 1992, Micro Focus International 1998 and Merant PLC 2001. The latter was acquired by Serena Software in 2004, which was then acquired...
Apache Subversion often abbreviated SVN, after its command name svn is a version control system. The software is distributed as open source software, under the Apache License. Software developers use Subversion to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation. Subversion is generally used to aid in the software lifecycle process, including code commits, binary releases, fault reporting and retraction, patch releases, and developer updates . Subversion is an important tool in software development lifecycle tasks such as software versioning. It provides an easy command line or application-based way to commit, branch, revert, and release all sorts of files , though it is most used by the software development community. Unlike Git, which it predates, SVN repositories are more often maintained on privately maintained servers. Subversion's goal is to be a mostly compatible successor to the previously more widely used Concurrent Versions System . The open source community has used Subversion widely: for example, in projects such as Apache Software Foundation, FreeBSD, SourceForge, and...
Revision Control System is an early implementation of a version control system . It is a set of UNI commands that allow multiple users to develop and maintain program code or documents. With RCS, users can make their own revisions of a document, commit changes, and merge them. RCS was originally developed for programs but is also useful for text documents or configuration files that are frequently revised.  History   Development  RCS was first released in 1982 by Walter F. Tichy at Purdue University. It was an alternative tool to the popular Source Code Control System , another early version control software tool presented in the December 1975 issue of IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering. RCS is currently maintained by the GNU Project. An innovation in RCS is the adoption of reverse deltas. Instead of storing every revision in a file like SCCS does with interleaved deltas, RCS stores a set of edit instructions to go back to an earlier version of the file. Tichy claims that it is faster for most cases because the recent revisions are used more often.  Legal and licensing  Initially through version 3, which was distributed in 4.3BSD, its license...
A codebase is a collection of source code that is maintained as a unit. Typically, it is used to build one or more software components including applications and libraries. A codebase is often stored in a source control repository of a version control system. A repository can contain build-generated files , but typically such files are excluded from a repository, and therefore the codebase. A repository may contain data files that are required for building or running the resulting software. But version control is not a required aspect of a codebase. Even the Linux kernel was maintained without version control for many years. When developing multiple components, a choice is made either to maintain a separate, distinct codebase for each, or to combine codebases, possibly in a single, monolithic codebase. With a monolithic codebase, changes to multiple components can often be easier and robust. But this requires a larger repository, and makes it easier to introduce wide-ranging technical debt. With separate codebases, each repository is smaller and more manageable. The structure enforces...
Gitea is a forge software package for hosting software development version control using Git as well as other collaborative features like bug tracking, code review, continuous integration, kanban boards, tickets, and wikis. It supports self-hosting and also provides a free public first-party instance. It is a fork of Gogs and is written in Go and TypeScript. Gitea can be hosted on all platforms supported by Go including FreeBSD, Linux, macOS, OpenBSD, and Windows. The project is funded on Open Collective.  History  Gitea is an open-source Git service that originated as a fork of Gogs in 2016. While Gogs was open-source, its repository was controlled by a single maintainer. In response to these limitations, the Gitea developers decided to fork Gogs in November 2016, creating a community-driven development model. Gitea had its official 1.0 release in December 2016. In October 2022, maintainers Lunny iao and Matti Ranta founded the company Gitea Limited with the goal of offering hosting services using specialized closed-source versions of Gitea, splitting the supported variants of Gitea between the Gitea Limited-provided installation and the original version licensed under the...
An integrated development environment is software that provides a relatively comprehensive set of features for software development. An IDE is intended to enhance productivity by providing development features with a consistent user experience as opposed to using separate tools, such as vi, GDB, GCC, and make. At a minimum, an IDE typically supports source-code editing, source control, build automation, and debugging. An IDE may include support for integrating tools such as a compiler, runtime environment or version control system, but sometimes such tools are bundled with the IDE. Some IDEs provide special support for constructing a graphical user interface . Many IDEs support object-oriented programming via features such as class browser and object browser. Typically, an IDE provides special support for one or more programming languages, allowing for features tailored to a language. Some IDEs can be extended to support additional languages. Although some IDEs are implemented as an application, some are implemented as a library, often designed for a particular software platform. For example, although Eclipse is a platform for which there are many plugins that each...
RhodeCode is an open source self-hosted platform for behind-the-firewall source code management. It provides centralized control over Git, Mercurial, and Subversion repositories within an organization, with common authentication and permission management. RhodeCode allows forking, pull requests, and code reviews via a web interface.  Software  RhodeCode is an enterprise source code management platform for Mercurial, Git, and SVN repositories. It also provides a web interface and APIs to control source code access, manage users, and conduct code reviews. The platform applies existing tools and integrations across the whole code base in a unified way. RhodeCode is written in Python using the Pylons Framework. It is run as a standalone hosted application on a dedicated server to manage multiple repositories within an organization. RhodeCode CE is free, with an unlimited number of users and repositories. RhodeCode EE is for-fee and builds enterprise integrations on top of CE.  Features  Team collaboration: Advanced code reviews. Side-by-side diffs. Pull requests. Inline source code chat. Full-text code search and source code indexing. Web-based file...
Control Resonant is an upcoming action role-playing game developed and published by Remedy Entertainment. It is a sequel to the 2019 game Control and is scheduled to release for PlayStation 5, Windows, and box Series S on 24 September 2026, and for macOS later in 2026. The story follows Dylan Faden, a paranaturally abled parautilitarian who first appeared as a supporting character in Control, as he battles an invasion of hostile entities while searching for his estranged sister Jesse Faden.  Gameplay  Resonant is an action role-playing game. The player assumes control of Dylan Faden, who is released from captivity by the Federal Bureau of Control to assist in their efforts to contain an escaped extradimensional entity that has taken control of downtown Manhattan. The game places an emphasis on melee combat in contrast to the third-person shooter elements of its predecessor: Dylan's primary weapon, the Aberrant, can shapeshift into a variety of armaments. Remedy described Resonant as an open-ended game, with the player being able to explore the city and complete optional quests and objectives.  Development  In June 2021, Remedy Entertainment announced an agreement...
GNU arch software is a distributed revision control system that is part of the GNU Project and licensed under the GNU General Public License. It is used to keep track of the changes made to a source tree and to help programmers combine and otherwise manipulate changes made by multiple people or at different times. As of 2009, GNU arch's official status is deprecation, and only security fixes are applied. Bazaar has since also been made an official GNU project and can thus be considered the replacement for GNU arch. It is not a fork of arch.  Features  Being a distributed, decentralized versioning system, each revision stored using arch is uniquely globally identifiable such identifier can be used in a distributed setting to easily merge or cherry-pick changes from completely disparate sources. Being decentralized means that there is no need for a central server for which developers have to be authorized in order to contribute. As with other systems, a full read-only copy of a project is made accessible in an official repository via HTTP, FTP, or SFTP but then, contributors are encouraged to make modifications and publish them in a public archive ...
Trac is an open-source, web-based project management and bug tracking system. It has been adopted by a variety of organizations for use as a bug tracking system for both free and open-source software and proprietary projects and products. Trac integrates with major version control systems including Subversion and Git. Trac is used, among others, by Django, FFmpeg, WebKit, 0 A.D., and WordPress. Trac is available on all major operating systems including Windows via Installer or Bitnami, OS  via MacPorts or pkgsrc, Debian, Ubuntu, Arch Linux or FreeBSD, as well as on various cloud hosting services.  History  Inspired by CVSTrac, Jonas Borgstrm and Daniel Lundin from Edgewall Software started writing svntrac in August 2003 using SQLite and Subversion. In December 2003 they renamed it to Trac. In February 2004 the Trac version was changed first from 0.0.1 to 0.1 and then directly from 0.1 to 0.5. That release was followed in March 2004 by 0.6 and 0.7, and 0.8 in November 2004. Edgewall Software is an umbrella organization for hosting edgewall.org for the community to collaborate on developing open source Python software. It used to offer software development, consulting...
Fossil is a software configuration management, bug tracking system and wiki software server for use in software development created by D. Richard Hipp.  Features  Fossil is a cross-platform distributed version control system that runs on Linux, BSD derivatives, Mac and Windows. It is capable of performing distributed version control, bug tracking, wiki services, and documentation. The software has a built-in web interface, accessible from the executable via a standalone HTTP server or as a CGI application. This interface provides features akin to a software forge, including bug tracking, documentation viewing, and commit timelines. To simplify centralized development, Fossil provides an autosync mode to automatically sync changes when commits are made, in a similar manner to centralized version control systems. Content is stored in an SQLite database, allowing it to benefit from the latter's atomic transactions for corruption resistance. Fossil is free software released under a BSD license .  Adoption  Fossil is used for version control by the SQLite project, which is itself a component of Fossil. SQLite transitioned to using Fossil for version...
This is a list of notable backup software that performs data backups. Archivers, transfer protocols, and version control systems are often used for backups but only software focused on backup is listed here. See Comparison of backup software for features.  Free and open-source software   Proprietary   Defunct software   See also  Comparison of file synchronization software Comparison of online backup services Data recovery File synchronization List of data recovery software Remote backup service Tape management system  Notes   References 
Robert Vernon Rice was an American biochemist from Carnegie Mellon University and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts primarily known for work in the area of biochemistry and physiology of muscle proteins and neuromuscular interactions.  Biography  Rice was born 13 August 1924 in Barre, Massachusetts, to Laurence Vernon Rice and Edith Rice . Rice is a direct patrilineal descendant of Edmund Rice, an early immigrant to Massachusetts Bay Colony from England. Rice married Betty Jane Marts on 13 July 1945 in Phoenix, Arizona, and they divorced in 1977. He died in Falmouth, Massachusetts on February 17, 2020.  Professional career  Rice earned his master's degree in 1952 and his Ph.D. in biochemistry in 1954 at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He spent most of his academic career from 1955 to 1995 at the department of biological sciences at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and served as department head. He was also a scientist-in-residence at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts during the summer months. His research focused...
Scott Larned was the keyboardist and founding member of Dark Star Orchestra, a popular Grateful Dead tribute band. He also played with Brother Brother, Freddy Jones Band, Citrus, Smoking Fish, and Hackenwheeze.  Dark Star Orchestra  Born July 3, 1969, Scott grew up in suburban Chicago and took piano lessons at a young age before playing with a succession of local bands in the Chicago area while holding a teaching position. His extensive gigging brought him in contact with a variety of musicians, one of whom was John Kadlecik, formally of Wingnut. John and Scott both had similar ideas for the creation of a band which would play full setlists culled from the long career of the Grateful Dead. In late 1997, they started planning four shows which would introduce this format. On November 11, 1997, the first of these shows was held at the Chicago nightclub, Martyrs'. After the third and fourth shows were sold-out, the concept was continued and Scott became the band's first manager, booking agent and publicist. Eventually Scott quit his teaching job and started touring nationally with the group, all the while performing his managerial duties. He ushered in...
The 2023-24 Oklahoma State Cowgirls basketball team represented Oklahoma State University during the 2023-24 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. They were led by second-year head coach Jacie Hoyt and played their home games at the Gallagher-Iba Arena as members of the Big 12 Conference.  Previous season  The Cowgirls finished the season 21-12 overall and 10-8 in the Big 12 conference to finish in a three-way tie for fourth place. In the Big 12 Tournament, Oklahoma State was a 4th seed, where they defeated West Virginia in the quarterfinals before losing to Texas in the semifinals. They received an at-large bid to the NCAA women's tournament as a No. 8 seed in Greenville region 2, where they lost in the first round to Miami .  Offseason   Departures   Incoming transfers   Recruiting  There was no recruiting class of 2023.  Roster   Schedule  Source:  See also  2023-24 Oklahoma State Cowboys basketball team  References 
Kuttanpillayude Sivarathri is a 2018 Indian Malayalam-language horror comedy film directed by Jean Markose and produced by Raji Nandakumar through production studio Alanghat Productions. The film set in the backdrop of Puttingal temple fire. The film stars Suraj Venjaramoodu, Mithun Ramesh and Biju Sopanam in the lead roles. Other co-lead roles are done by Asha Sreekanth, Srinda Arhaan, Ramya Suresh, Radio Presenter Dr.Shruthy Muralidharan and popular percussionist Shilpa Sreekumar. The movie also marks playback singer Sayanora Philip's debut music directorial. Fazil Nassar is the cinematographer and Shibish K Chandran is the editor.  Plot  Plachottil Kuttan Pillai is a strong-willed policeman who lives a contented life with his wife, Sub-Inspector Shakunthala, looking after his backyard farm. They have three children, all married and settled. A party of his relatives - his children, their spouses and the extended family - converge at his humble home to attend the annual Shivarathri festival attached to the famous Shiva Temple in the neighbourhood. Yet, the festive mood is soon embroiled with selfish objectives of the sons-in-law, blowing off...
Trembita is a Ukrainian surface-to-surface cruise missile manufactured by PARS. It was revealed publicly in April 2023.  Name  The name of the projectile refers to the characteristic shape of the trembita, an instrument that somewhat resembles the shape of the engine used in this machine - a long, straight tube flared at the end.  Description  The Trembita is structurally similar to the German V-1 flying bomb from the Second World War. The missile is powered by a pulsejet engine, which allows it to reach a speed of about 400 kmh. This engine generates 100 dB of sound and large amounts of heat, making the Trembita an attractive target for enemy air defenses, especially MANPADS missiles. The missile has a range of about 140 km, its minimum flight altitude is 30 m, and the maximum ceiling is 2,000 m. The fuel supply is 30 L of E92 or E95 gasoline or diesel fuel. Trembita, due to the type of engine used, is equipped with a rocket accelerator, enabling proper launch. These missiles are usually launched from mobile launchers usually carrying about 20-30 missiles. The fuselage has two pairs of stabilization wings, one mounted on...
Isabel Suckling is a British singer who was the youngest classical recording artist signed by Decca Records, and the first choirgirl to sign a record contract with a major music label. Suckling sang in the choir at York Minster at the time, and was discovered by Decca following a nationwide search. She was mentored by the singer, TVradio presenter and former boy soprano Aled Jones. Her debut album was titled The Choirgirl, and was released on 29 November 2010 ahead of Christmas sales anticipated by record executives to be lucrative. The album's first single was a cover of Michael Jackson's You Are Not Alone, with proceeds going to the charity Age UK. Also featured was a choral recording of Imagine to commemorate the 30th anniversary of John Lennon's death, and a duet with Aled Jones' original 1986 vocal track on All Through The Night, previously never released. The album was nominated for Album of the Year at the 2011 Classic BRIT Awards. In 2012, Suckling collaborated with Robin Gibb and his son, performing the track Christmas Day on the Gibbs' debut classical album, The Titanic Requiem. She took part at the premiere of the album on 10 April 2012, and...
Coed Llandyfan is a Site of Special Scientific Interest in Carmarthen  Dinefwr, Wales. It is an ancient semi-natural broadleaved wood near the small village of Llandyfan, and is 6.7 hectares in extent.  See also  List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Carmarthen  Dinefwr  References   External links  Map showing the outline of the SSSI
Robert Robbie Bernard Lyn is a Jamaican session musician who plays piano, keyboard and synthesiser.  Biography  Robbie Lyn is a popular Jamaican session musician, who has played with various sessionbacking bands including Now Generation, Sound Dimension, Word, Sound and Power, and Sly and Robbie. He has also backed andor toured with many reggae artists, including Burning Spear, Peter Tosh, Dennis Brown and Third World.  Discography   Solo albums  Making Notes - for which Lyn received the Reggae Academy Award for Best Instrumental Album, 2008.  Participated Albums  Never Ending by Beres Hammond - Keyboards From Then 'Til Now by Roots Architects - Keyboards, organisation  References   External links  Robbie's MySpace page Listing of playing credits at Roots Archives Interview at Penthouse Records, 2009
The Bogdan Bars-8 is a 4x4 Ukrainian armored personnel carrier designed by the Bogdan Corporation. The Bars-8 is built on the chassis of the Dodge Ram pickup truck, and is a further development of the earlier Bars-6.  History  The Bars-8 was first unveiled on April 4, 2015. In April of 2016, the Ukrainian military put the Bars-8 through multiple testing programs, ultimately finding it suitable for their needs. It entered into Ukrainian military service in June 2019.  Design  The Bars-8 utilizes the 4x4 chassis of the American Dodge Ram pickup truck. The vehicle's cabin is protected by bulletproof glass and STANAG 4569 Level 2 armor. Two occupants, a driver and a commander, sit in the front of the vehicle. A third crew member is located in the roof-mounted turret. The rear of the vehicle can hold up to eight passengers.  Service history  The Bars-8 entered into service with the Ukrainian military in 2019, and was immediately deployed with units in Eastern Ukraine for the War in Donbas. The type has continued to serve with the AFU throughout the current Russian Invasion of Ukraine. At least one Bars-8 and two Bars-8MMK have been destroyed by Russian forces. Currently, Ukraine...
Sunil Naliyath is a Malayalam language writer and translator from Kerala, India. He translated many noted literary works in Bengali to Malayalam. He received many awards including the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award for Translation in 2014 and the Sahitya Akademi Award for Translation in 2022.  Biography  Sunil was born in 1969 in Calcutta , West Bengal as the son of T. P. Naliath, who was a political activist, writer, rationalist and a newspaper editor. His father, T. P. Naliath, was an early publisher and editor of the publication Kerala Rashmi in Kolkata. Soon after his birth, he came to Tiruvankulam in Ernakulam district of Kerala with his mother. Sunil studied from 1st to 7th standard in Tiruvankulam. He then returned to West Bengal with his family and studied at the Andhra Association Education Trust's School in Calcutta. Even while in Bengal, his father's collection of Malayalam books and the Malayalam publications he purchased helped him maintain his connection with his mother tongue, Malayalam. Bengali was studied as a third language in his English undergraduate studies. It was during his undergraduate studies that he was attracted towards Bengali literary works...
The Asociacin para la Enseanza de la Mujer AEM, Association for the Education of Women was a women's rights organisation active in Spain from 1870. It was founded by the progressive educator Fernando de Castro, professor at the University of Madrid, in 1870. The purpose of the association was to make higher education available to women. The period between the deposition of queen Isabella II of Spain in 1868 and the Restoration of 1875 was a time of intense debate over the reformation of society, which also included the issue of women's rights, which was to become the starting point of the Spanish women's movement. In 1869, Fernando de Castro gave a series of lectures on education of women, in which he argued that education should be made available for women so that they too could fulfill their individual potential and help to bring forward the development of Spain in line with more developed Western nations. A popular argument was also that the perceived maternal instincts of women made them better educators. In 1869, he founded the Ateneo Artistico Literario y Senoras, which was split into the Escuela de Institutrices and the Asociacin Nacional de Mujeres Espaolas in 1870. Concepcin...
The Warren Segraves House is a historic house at 217 Oklahoma Way in Fayetteville, Arkansas. It is a two-story structure, finished in vertical board siding and brick. Its street-facing east facade has small windows, while the western facade is almost all glass, providing view over the valley to the west. The house was built in 1959 to a design by Arkansas architect Warren Segraves for his family's use, and is a good example of Mid-Century Modern residential architecture. Its most distinctive feature is a series of diamond-shaped panels that give the roof an accordion shape. The house was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2017.  See also  National Register of Historic Places listings in Washington County, Arkansas  References 
The following is a list of animated films by the number of tickets sold at the box office.  List  In total, 34 animated films have sold more than 40 million tickets. The most notable years are 2001 with three films, 2016 with 4 films, and 2019 with 5 films, while Toy Story is the most represented franchise with four films. Disney produced the most, with a total of 28 films on the list. Ne Zha 2 is the first film to hold the 1 spot to not be produced by Disney and to be in CGI. Some of the data is incomplete due to a lack of available admissions data from a number of countries. It is not an exhaustive list of all the highest-grossing animated films by ticket sales, and no rankings are given.  Computer animation  In total, 34 computer-animated films have sold more than 30 million tickets. The most represented year is 2016 with four films, while Shrek and Toy Story are the franchises with the most film, with four each. Pixar produced the most, with 16 films on the list. Some of the data is incomplete due to a lack of available admissions data from a number of countries. It is not an exhaustive list of all the highest-grossing computer-animated films by ticket sales, and no rankings...
John Alfonza Baker Jr. , better known by his stage name Spoken Reasons, is an American YouTuber. Baker grew up in Bradenton, Florida. He began a YouTube channel in 2008, which as of August 2016 had accumulated over 1.9 million subscribers and 280 million total video views. He made his feature film debut in a supporting role for the 20th Century Fox comedy, The Heat, which opened on June 28, 2013. Baker partnered with Russell Simmons' All Def Digital in 2013, and worked with recording artist Priscilla Renea. He appeared in the third season of Real Husbands of Hollywood.  Filmographytelevision   References   External links  Official website
The West Side Waltz is a play by Ernest Thompson. The play focuses on Margaret Mary Elderdice, an aging, widowed pianist living in a dreary Upper West Side apartment, and her relationships with a prim, virginal violinist neighbor and the young companion who moves in for an extended stay. Thompson was prompted to write the piece when screenwriter George Seaton offered him a grant to write a new play following the success of his previous work, On Golden Pond. The play originally was presented off-Broadway in 1978. After three previews, the Broadway production, directed by Noel William, opened on November 19, 1981, at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre. Despite the presence of screen legend Katharine Hepburn, supported by Dorothy Loudon, Regina Baff, and David Margulies, it ran for only 126 performances. Hepburn was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play, but lost to Zoe Caldwell . The production then went on tour, running at the Shubert Theatre from April 13 to May 1, 1982. Thompson wrote the teleplay for and directed a CBS production that originally aired on Thanksgiving night in 1995. The cast included Shirley MacLaine, Liza Minnelli, Kathy Bates, Jennifer Grey...
The 2006 Japan Golf Tour was the 34th season of the Japan Golf Tour , the main professional golf tour in Japan since it was formed in 1973.  Schedule  The following table lists official events during the 2006 season.  Unofficial events  The following events were sanctioned by the Japan Golf Tour, but did not carry official money, nor were wins official.  Money list  The money list was based on prize money won during the season, calculated in Japanese yen.  Awards   Japan Challenge Tour  The 2006 Japan Challenge Tour was the 22nd season of the Japan Challenge Tour, the official development tour to the Japan Golf Tour.  Schedule  The following table lists official events during the 2006 season.  Money list  The money list was based on prize money won during the season, calculated in Japanese yen. The top five players on the money list earned status to play on the 2007 Japan Golf Tour.  Notes   References   External links  Official website
Louise-Marie Danhaive was a Belgian novelist, playwright, poet, and journalist. She was very present and active in the cultural life of Namur, having stayed in the region for most of her life.  Early life  Louise-Marie Danhaive was born on February 13, 1923, in Saint-Servais, Namur. Her father, Fernand Danhaive, was a historian. She suffered from asthma as a child, and consequently did not attend most of preschool and some of her first years of primary education. Despite this, her passion for writing, in particular poetry, developed from a young age. Her interest in writing increased after the 1935 death of her father, which sharply affected her. In 1938 she published her first collection of prose, Heures Brves . This work was lauded by such contemporaries as Franois Bovesse, Maurice Carme, and Georges Duhamel. She went on to meet Duhamel, as well as Jean Cocteau, three years later in Paris.  Second World War  From 1941 to 1944, Danhaive was part of the Belgian Resistance, specifically the Belgian National Movement . She also offered her services to the clandestine resistance press. She received three medals for this work: The Medal of the Armed...
Route 233 is a provincial highway located in the Estrie and Montrgie regions of Quebec east of Montreal. The highway links Farnham and Saint-Csaire with Saint-Hyacinthe. It starts at a junction with Route 104 between Farnham and Sainte-Brigide-d'Iberville, next to a training facility of the Canadian Forces and runs north toward a parclo interchange with Autoroute 10 after which it crosses the Rivire du Sud-Ouest which it follows for a few kilometers until its headwaters on Yamaska River. Shortly after it runs through Saint-Csaire, crossing Route 112, before continuing to follow the Yamaska until its end at the junction of Route 231.  Municipalities along Route 233  Farnham Sainte-Brigide-d'Iberville Saint-Csaire Saint-Damase Saint-Hyacinthe  See also  List of Quebec provincial highways  References   External links  Official Transports Quebec Provincial Road Network Map Archived 2008-05-17 at the Wayback Machine 233 on GoogleMaps
Harefield is a suburb and Electoral Ward near Bitterne in Southampton, England. Harefield Ward consists of a small council housing estate built around 19523 on the 238-acre estate of Harefield House and additional private housing. Harefield Ward had a population of 14,448 at the 2021 Census, and is adjacent to Bitterne Park, Peartree, Sholing and Bitterne wards.  History  Harefield House was a country house of Elizabethan style built in 1834 for Sir Edward Butler, chairman of the Southampton and Salisbury Railway Company. The location is now the grounds of Harefield Infant and Junior Schools on Yeovil Chase. Edwin Jones, the Southampton draper whose store ultimately became part of Debenhams bought the house in 1887. Harefield House is often mistakenly reported as burning down in 1915, this misconception is printed in the book Memories of Bitterne by Irene Pilson and seems to have stuck. The house actually burnt down on May 6, 1917, as reported in the Southern Daily Echo at the time. The Jones family sold the estate in 1917 and there was some building in the 1920s but it was not developed in earnest until after the Second World War. The area was part of the civil parish...
The 2011 Cork Senior Hurling Championship was the 123rd staging of the Cork Senior Hurling Championship since its establishment by the Cork County Board in 1887. The draw for the 2011 opening round fixtures took place on 11 December 2010. The championship proper began on 3 June 2011 and ended on 2 October 2011. Sarsfields were the defending champions, however, they were defeated by Newtownshandrum in the quarter-finals. On 20 August 2011, Ballinhassig were relegated from the championship following a 0-12 to 0-13 defeat by Bishopstown. On 2 October 2011, Carrigtwohill won the championship following a 0-15 to 1-11 defeat of the Cork Institute of Technology in the final. This was their second championship title overall and their first since 1918.  Format change  The format of the 2011 championship was slightly altered due to a decrease in the number of divisional teams taking part. Carrigdhoun, Carbery and Seandn declined to field teams in the championship. The four remaining divisional teams competed in a preliminary round robin, with the top two teams qualifying to meet the two college teams for a place in the championship proper.  Team changes   To Championship  Promoted...
Gerald David Lorenzo Music was an American actor, composer, musician, performer, writer and producer. Music began his career in the 1960s with his wife, Henrietta, forming the comedy duo Gerald and His Hen. He then became a writer and a regular performer on the controversial CBS variety show The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour. In the 1970s, Music co-created the sitcom The Bob Newhart Show with David Davis and composed its theme music with his wife. He also wrote episodes for The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Rhoda, and got a major voiceover role for playing the unseen, but often heard, Carlton the Doorman in Rhoda. Music gained fame in the 1980s for voicing Jim Davis's comic strip character Garfield in twelve animated specials, and later an animated series, video games, and commercials. His nostalgic, drawling voice as Garfield was imitated by later actors after his death in 2001.  Early life and career  Gerald David Music was born on May 2, 1937, in Brooklyn, New York City to Harry and Sophie Music. He was six years old when his family moved to Duluth, Minnesota because of his father's job at one of the shipyards. His parents later divorced...
In Western musical notation, the staff  , also occasionally referred to as a pentagram, is a set of horizontal lines with spaces between them, that each represent a different musical pitch. However, in the case of a percussion staff, there may be from one to five lines which denote different percussion instruments, as may the spaces in between. In guitar tab there are up to six lines denoting different strings. Appropriate music symbols, depending on the intended effect, are placed on the staff with the vertical position showing their pitch, percussion instrument or string, and the horizontal position showing their approximate location in time. The absolute pitch of each line of a pitched staff is indicated by the placement of a clef symbol at the appropriate vertical position on the left-hand side of the staff possibly modified by conventions for specific instruments. For example, the treble clef, also known as the G clef, is placed on the second line , fixing that line as the pitch first G above middle C. The lines and spaces are numbered from bottom to top the bottom line is...
Psychedelic music is a wide range of popular music styles and genres influenced by 1960s psychedelia, a subculture of people who used psychedelic drugs such as DMT, LSD, mescaline, and psilocybin mushrooms, to experience synesthesia and altered states of consciousness. Psychedelic music may also aim to enhance the experience of using these drugs and has been found to have a significant influence on psychedelic therapy. Psychedelia embraces visual art, movies, and literature, as well as music. Psychedelic music emerged during the 1960s among folk and rock bands in the United States and the United Kingdom, creating the subgenres of psychedelic folk, psychedelic rock, acid rock, and psychedelic pop before declining in the early 1970s. Numerous spiritual successors followed in the ensuing decades, including progressive rock, krautrock, and heavy metal. Since the 1970s, revivals have included psychedelic funk, neo-psychedelia, and stoner rock as well as psychedelic electronic music genres such as acid house, trance music, and new rave.  Characteristics  Psychedelic as an adjective is often used loosely, with many acts playing in a variety of styles....
Musi is a Serbo-Croatian surname. In the Middle Ages in Serbia there was a Musi noble family. Notable people with the name include: Amar Musi , Croatian weightlifter Amar Musi , Bosnian footballer Ermin Musi , Bosnian footballer Novak Musi , Serbian basketball player Vedin Musi , Bosnian footballer  See also  All pages with titles containing Musi Mui Mui
In music, a solo is a piece or a section of a piece played or sung featuring a single performer, who may be performing completely alone or supported by an accompanying instrument such as a piano or organ, a continuo group , or the rest of a choir, orchestra, band, or other ensemble. Performing a solo is to solo, and the performer is known as a soloist. The plural is soli or the anglicised form solos. In some contexts these are interchangeable, but the Italian form soli tends to be restricted to classical music and mostly either the solo performers or the solo passages in a single piece. Furthermore, the word soli can be used to refer to a small number of simultaneous parts assigned to single players in an orchestral composition. In the Baroque concerto grosso, the term for such a group of soloists was concertino. In popular music, an instrumental solo is often used during a break or bridge to add interest and variety to a part of the song without lyrics.  History   18th century  In the Baroque and Classical periods, the word solo was virtually equivalent to sonata, and could refer either to a piece for one melody instrument with continuo...
Incidental music is music in a play, television program, radio program, video game, or some other presentation form that is not primarily musical. The term is less frequently applied to film music, with such music being referred to instead as the film score or soundtrack. Incidental music is often background music, and is intended to add atmosphere to the action. It may take the form of something as simple as a low, ominous tone suggesting an impending startling event or to enhance the depiction of a story-advancing sequence. It may also include pieces such as overtures, music played during scene changes, or at the end of an act, immediately preceding an interlude, as was customary with several nineteenth-century plays. It may also be required in plays that have musicians performing on-stage.  History  The phrase incidental music is from the German Inzidenzmusik, which is defined in the Methuen Drama Dictionary of the Theatre as music that is specifically written for a play but does not form an integral part of the work. The use of incidental music dates back to ancient Greek drama and possibly before the Greeks. A number of classical composers have written incidental music...
A round also called a perpetual canon , round about or infinite canon is a musical composition, a limited type of canon, in which multiple voices sing exactly the same melody, but with each voice beginning at different times so that different parts of the melody coincide in the different voices, but nevertheless fit harmoniously together. It is one of the easiest forms of part singing, as only one line of melody need be learned by all singers, and is part of a popular musical tradition. They were particularly favoured in glee clubs, which combined amateur singing with regular drinking. The earliest known rounds date from 12th-century Europe. One characteristic of rounds is that, there is no fixed ending, in the sense that they may be repeated as many times as possible, although many do have fixed endings, often indicated by a fermata. Row, Row, Row Your Boat is a well-known children's round for four voices. Other well-known examples are Frre Jacques, Three Blind Mice, Kookaburra, and, more recently, the outro of God Only Knows by The Beach Boys. A catch is a round in which a phrase that is not apparent in a single line of lyrics emerges when the lyrics...
In sound and music, an envelope describes how a sound changes over time. For example, a piano key, when struck and held, creates a near-immediate initial sound which gradually decreases in volume to zero. An envelope may relate to elements such as amplitude , frequency or pitch. Envelope generators, which allow users to control the different stages of a sound, are common features of synthesizers, samplers, and other electronic musical instruments. The most common envelope generator is controlled with four parameters: attack, decay, sustain and release .  Development  The envelope generator was created by the American engineer Robert Moog, the creator of the Moog synthesizer, in the 1960s. The composer Herbert Deutsch suggested Moog find a way to articulate his synthesizer so notes did not simply trigger on and off. Moog wired a doorbell button to the synthesizer and used a capacitor to store and slowly release voltage produced from hitting a key. He refined the design to remove the need to push a separate button with every keypress, with two switches on every key: one to produce the control voltage determining pitch and the other to trigger...
The Sound of Music is a 1965 American musical drama film produced and directed by Robert Wise from a screenplay written by Ernest Lehman. It is based on the 1959 stage musical composed by Richard Rodgers, with lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II and a book by Lindsay and Crouse, itself based on the 1949 memoir The Story of the Trapp Family Singers by Maria von Trapp. The film stars Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer, with Richard Haydn, Peggy Wood, Charmian Carr, and Eleanor Parker. Set in Salzburg, Austria, it is a fictional retelling of Maria von Trapp's experiences as governess to seven children, her eventual marriage with their father Captain Georg von Trapp, and their escape during the Anschluss in 1938. Filming took place from March to September 1964 in Los Angeles and Salzburg. The Sound of Music was released by 20th Century-Fox in the United States on March 2, 1965, at first as a limited roadshow theatrical release. It initially received mixed reviews from film critics. However, the film was a major commercial success, becoming the number-one box office film after four weeks, and the highest-grossing film of 1965. By November 1966, The Sound of Music had become the highest-grossing...
Party Music is the fourth studio album by American hip-hop group the Coup. It was originally released on 75 Ark on November 6, 2001. It was re-released on Epitaph Records in 2004.  Album cover  The original cover of the album, created in June 2001, depicted Boots Riley and Pam the Funkstress destroying the twin towers of the World Trade Center using what appeared to be a detonator. The apparent detonator was actually an electronic tuner. The album's release had already been pushed back from early September to November by the time the Twin Towers were destroyed during the September 11 attacks. The printing of the original cover was scheduled to begin on September 11 after the attacks, the label halted the print run and began work on new artwork, over the objections of Boots Riley, who argued for keeping the original design. In a 2001 interview with Seattle newspaper The Stranger, Boots Riley spoke about his fight to keep the album cover following the events of September 11: There's been a whitewash in the media over the past couple days over what the U.S.'s role in the world is, and the fact that they kill hundreds of thousands of people per year to protect profit. Now how can...
Fear of Music is the third studio album by the American rock band Talking Heads, released on August 3, 1979, by Sire Records. It was recorded at locations in New York City during April and May 1979 and was produced by Brian Eno and Talking Heads. The album reached No. 21 on the U.S. Billboard 200 and No. 33 on the UK Albums Chart. It spawned the singles Life During Wartime, I Zimbra, and Cities. Fear of Music received favorable reviews from critics. Praise centered on its unconventional rhythms and lead vocalist David Byrne's lyrical performances. The album is often considered one of Talking Heads' best releases and has been featured in several publications' lists of the best albums of all time.  Background  Talking Heads' second studio album More Songs About Buildings and Food, released in 1978, expanded the band's sonic palette. The record included a hit single, a cover version of Al Green's 1974 song Take Me to the River, which gained the quartet commercial exposure. In March 1979, the band members played the song on American music and dance television program American Bandstand. In the days after the performance, they decided they did not want to be regarded simply as...
A hook is a musical idea, often a short riff, passage, or phrase, that is used in popular music to make a song appealing and to catch the ear of the listener. The term generally applies to popular music, especially rock, RB, hip-hop, dance, and pop. In these genres, the hook is often found in, or consists of, the chorus. A hook can be either melodic or rhythmic, and often incorporates the main motif for a piece of music.  Definitions  One definition of a hook is a musical or lyrical phrase that stands out and is easily remembered. Definitions typically include some of the following: that a hook is repetitive, attention-grabbing, memorable, easy to dance to, and has commercial potential and lyrics. A hook has been defined as a part of a song, sometimes the title or key lyric line, that keeps recurring. Alternatively, the term has been defined as the foundation of commercial songwriting, particularly hit-single writing, one note or a series of notes ... a lyric phrase, full lines, or an entire verse. The hook is 'what you're selling' and can be something as insubstantial as a 'sound' such as da doo ron ron or toora-loora-loo...
Music theory is the study of theoretical frameworks for understanding the practices and possibilities of music. The Oxford Companion to Music describes three interrelated uses of the term music theory: The first refers to the rudiments needed to understand music notation such as key signatures, time signatures, and rhythmic notation the second is a study of scholars' views on music from antiquity to the present the third is a sub-topic of musicology that seeks to define processes and general principles in music. The musicological approach to theory differs from musical analysis in that it takes as its starting-point not the individual work or performance but the fundamental materials from which it is built. Music theory is frequently concerned with describing how musicians and composers make music, including tuning systems and composition methods among other topics. Because of the ever-expanding conception of what constitutes music, a more inclusive definition could be the consideration of any sonic phenomena, including silence. This is not an absolute guideline, however for example, the study of music in the Quadrivium liberal arts university curriculum, that was common...
In musical terminology, tempo from Italian for 'time' plural 'tempos', or tempi from the Italian plural, measured in beats per minute, is the speed or pace of a given composition, and is often also an indication of the composition's character or atmosphere. In classical music, tempo is typically indicated with an instruction at the start of a piece and, if a specific metrical pace is desired, is usually measured in beats per minute . In modern classical compositions, a metronome mark in beats per minute, indicating only measured speed and not any form of expression, may supplement or replace the normal tempo marking, while in modern genres like electronic dance music, tempo will typically simply be stated in bpm. Tempo is one of the three factors that give a piece of music its texture. The others are meter, which is indicated by a time signature, and articulation, which determines how each note is sounded and how notes are grouped into larger units. While the ability to hold a steady tempo is a vital skill for a musical performer, tempo is malleable. Depending on the genre of a piece of music...
In musical notation, a beam is a horizontal or diagonal line used to connect multiple consecutive notes to indicate rhythmic grouping. Only eighth notes or shorter can be beamed. The number of beams is equal to the number of flags that would be present on an unbeamed note. Beaming refers to the conventions and use of beams. A primary beam connects a note group unbroken, while a secondary beam is interrupted or partially broken.  Grouping  Beam spans indicate rhythmic groupings, usually determined by the time signature. Therefore, beams do not usually cross bar lines or major subdivisions of bars. A single eighth note, or any faster note, is always stemmed with flags, while two or more are typically beamed in groups. In modern practice, beams may span across rests in order to make rhythmic groups clearer.  Sub-grouping  Beyond basic note grouping, beams are often used to indicate internal rhythmic subdivisions. This is achieved by using primary and secondary beams. For example, in a run of eight 16th notes, the entire sequence is unified by a continuous primary beam-the outermost line-which signifies the overarching beat or pulse. To clarify...
A record label or record company is a brand or trademark of music recordings and music videos, or the company that owns it. A record label can also be a publishing company that manages such brands and trademarks, coordinates the production, manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion, and enforcement of copyright for sound recordings and music videos, while also conducting talent scouting and development of new artists, artist financing and maintaining contracts with recording artists and their managers. The term record label derives from the circular label in the center of a vinyl record which prominently displays the manufacturer's name, along with other information. Within the mainstream music industry, recording artists have traditionally been reliant upon record labels to broaden their consumer base, market their albums, and promote their singles on streaming services, radio, and television. Record labels also provide publicists, who assist performers in gaining positive media coverage, and arrange for their merchandise to be available via stores and other media outlets.  Major versus independent record labels  Record labels may be small, localized and independent...
In music, the conclusion is the ending of a composition and may take the form of a coda or outro. Pieces using sonata form typically use the recapitulation to conclude a piece, providing closure through the repetition of thematic material from the exposition in the tonic key. In all musical forms other techniques include altogether unexpected digressions just as a work is drawing to its close, followed by a return...to a consequently more emphatic confirmation of the structural relations implied in the body of the work. For example: The slow movement of Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 2, where a diminished-7th chord progression interrupts the final cadence. The slow movement of Symphony No. 5 by Beethoven, where, echoing afterthoughts, follow the initial statements of the first theme and only return expanded in the coda. Varse's Density 21.5, where partitioning of the chromatic scale into whole tone scales provides the missing tritone of b implied in the previously exclusive partitioning by diminished seventh chords.  Coda  Coda is a term used in music in a number of different senses, primarily to designate a passage which...
Music semiology is the study of signs as they pertain to music on a variety of levels.  Overview  Following Roman Jakobson, Kofi Agawu adopts the idea of musical semiosis being introversive or extroversive-that is, musical signs within a text and without. Topics, or various musical conventions such as horn calls, dance forms, and styles, have been treated suggestively by Agawu, among others. The notion of gesture is beginning to play a large role in musico-semiotic enquiry. There are strong arguments that music inhabits a semiological realm which, on both ontogenetic and phylogenetic levels, has developmental priority over verbal language. Writers on music semiology include Kofi Agawu , Robert S. Hatten , Raymond Monelle , Jean-Jacques Nattiez on introversive taxonomic analysis and ethnomusicological applications, Anthony Newcomb , Thomas Turino applying the semiotics of Charles Sanders Peirce, and Eero Tarasti generally considered the founder of musical semiotics. Roland Barthes, himself a semiotician and skilled amateur pianist, wrote about music in some...
Music player can refer to: Various types of musicians: bass player, guitar player, piano player, etc. Music box Player piano Record player Tape player Media player software, software running on a computer that can play various types of media, including audio Portable media player, hardware device for playing back music
Independent music also commonly known as indie music, or simply indie is a broad style of music characterized by creative freedom, low budgets, and a do-it-yourself approach to music creation. It originated from the liberties afforded by independent record labels. Indie music describes a number of related styles, but generally refers to guitar-oriented music that deviates from mainstream conventions. There are a number of subgenres of independent music which combine its characteristics with other genres, such as indie pop, indie rock, indie folk, and indie electronic. Additionally, in certain circles, the term indie has taken on a definition entirely based on the typical sound of independent music in the 1980s, losing its connection to production style. The origins of independent music lie in the early distribution of private press albums from the 1960s-1970s as well as late '70s British independent record labels, from the early alternative music scene such as Rough Trade, Factory, Industrial Records and Mute, which later contributed to the development of alternative rock music. NME released the influential compilation album C86 in 1986, which helped define indie rock. American independent...
Jungle is a genre of electronic music that developed in the 1990s out of the UK rave scene and Jamaican sound system culture. Emerging from breakbeat hardcore, the style is characterised by rapid breakbeats, heavily syncopated percussive loops, samples and synthesised effects, combined with the deep basslines, melodies and vocal samples found in dub, reggae and dancehall, as well as hip-hop and funk. Many producers frequently sampled the Amen break or other breakbeats from funk and jazz recordings. Jungle was a direct precursor to the drum and bass genre which emerged in the mid-1990s.  Origins  The breakbeat hardcore scene of the early 1990s was beginning to fragment by 1992 and 1993, with different influences becoming less common together in tracks. The piano and uplifting vocal style that was prevalent in breakbeat hardcore started to lay down the foundations of 4-beathappy hardcore, whilst tracks with dark-themed samples and industrial-style stabs had emerged from late 1992 and named darkcore. Reggae samples and reggae-influenced tracks had been a feature of many breakbeat hardcore tracks since 1990, particularly from producers such as Shut Up and Dance however, Paul Ibiza...
Pitch is the quality that makes it possible to judge sounds as higher and lower in the sense associated with musical melodies. Pitch is a perceptual property that allows sounds to be ordered on a frequency-related scale. Pitch is a major auditory attribute of musical tones, along with duration, loudness, and timbre. Pitch may be quantified as a frequency, but pitch is not a purely objective physical property it is a subjective psychoacoustical attribute of sound. Historically, the study of pitch and pitch perception has been a central problem in psychoacoustics, and has been instrumental in forming and testing theories of sound representation, processing, and perception in the auditory system.  Perception   Pitch and frequency  Pitch is an auditory sensation in which a listener assigns musical tones to relative positions on a musical scale based primarily on their perception of the frequency of vibration . Pitch is closely related to frequency, but the two are not equivalent. Frequency is an objective, scientific attribute which can be measured. Pitch is the subjective perception of a sound wave by the individual person, which cannot be directly measured...
In music, the introduction is a passage or section which opens a movement or a separate piece, preceding the theme or lyrics. In popular music, this is often known as the song intro or just the intro. The introduction establishes melodic, harmonic or rhythmic material related to the main body of a piece. Introductions may consist of an ostinato that is used in the following music, an important chord or progression that establishes the tonality and groove for the following music, or they may be important but disguised or out-of-context motivic or thematic material. As such, the introduction may be the first statement of primary or other important material, may be related to but different from the primary or other important material, or may bear little relation to any other material. A common introduction to a rubato ballad is a dominant seventh chord with a fermata, an introduction that works for many songs is the last four or eight measures of the song, while a common introduction to the twelve-bar blues is a single chorus. If a movement in sonata form form begins with an introductory section, this introduction is typically not considered part of the movement's exposition. 2...
A demo is a song or group of songs typically recorded for limited circulation or for reference use, rather than for general public release. A demo is a way for a musician to approximate their ideas in a fixed format, such as cassette tape, compact disc, or digital audio files, and to thereby pass along those ideas to record labels, producers, or other artists. Musicians often use demos as quick sketches to share with bandmates or arrangers, or simply for personal reference during the songwriting process in other cases, a songwriter might make a demo to send to artists in hopes of having the song professionally recorded, or a publisher may need a simple recording for publishing or copyright purposes.  Background  Demos can be recorded on relatively crude equipment such as boom box cassette recorders, small four- or eight-track machines, or on personal computers with audio recording software. Songwriters' and publishers' demos are often recorded with minimal instrumentation, usually just an acoustic guitar or piano and the vocals. Both Elton John and Donovan gained studio experience early in their careers by recording publishers' demos for other...
Getting Out Our Dreams, Inc. best known as GOOD Music or G.O.O.D. Music is an American independent record label founded by rapper Kanye West in 2004. The label entered an exclusive long-term worldwide distribution contract with the Island Def Jam Music Group in 2011. In 2012, the label released its only compilation album, Cruel Summer. In 2015, Pusha T was appointed president of the label by West, while record executive Steven Victor was appointed chief operating officer . In late 2022, Pusha T stepped down from the position as he was no longer on speaking terms with West. The label has released two number-one US Billboard Hot 100 singles-All of Me by John Legend, and Panda by Desiigner-as well as nine number-one US Billboard 200 albums-Finding Forever by Common Dark Sky Paradise , I Decided , and Detroit 2 by Big Sean The Life of Pablo , Ye , Jesus Is King , and Donda by Kanye West and It's Almost Dry by Pusha T.  History   Prior efforts  In 2001, West established a company to forward revenue cuts for his expanding production work. Known at the time as Konman Productions , it was...
This list consists of notable albums or songs considered the worst examples of popular music, based on reviews, polls and sentiment from music critics, musicians and the public.  Albums   1960s-1970s  Philosophy of the World, the Shaggs The Shaggs were formed in 1965 by the teenage sisters Dorothy, Betty and Helen Wiggin. Though they had no interest in becoming musicians, they were forced to write, rehearse and record an album by their father, who believed that his mother had predicted their rise to fame. They composed bizarre songs with untuned guitars, erratic time signatures, disconnected rhythms, wandering melodies and rudimentary lyrics about pets and families. Many listeners wondered if their album Philosophy of the World was the worst ever recorded, including the Rolling Stone writer Chris Conelly. In a 1999 profile for The New Yorker, Susan Orlean wrote that depending on whom you ask, the Shaggs were either the best band of all time or the worst. In 2022, Vice wrote that the Shaggs were the best worst band of all time, and a 2025 Guardian article described them as the world's worst band. In 2026, The Times called Philosophy of the World the worst album of...
Wonderwall Music is the debut solo studio album by the English musician George Harrison and the soundtrack to the 1968 film Wonderwall, directed by Joe Massot. Released in November 1968, it was the first solo album by a member of the Beatles, and the first album issued on the band's Apple record label. The tracks are mostly instrumental pieces, with some featuring non-English language vocals and one track with English lyrics, mostly short musical vignettes. Following his Indian-styled songs for the Beatles since 1966, he used the film score to further promote Indian classical music by introducing rock audiences to instruments that were relatively little-known in the West - including shehnai, sarod, tar shehnai, tanpura and santoor. The Indian pieces are contrasted by Western musical selections, in the psychedelic rock, experimental, country and ragtime styles. Harrison recorded the album between November 1967 and February 1968, with sessions taking place in London and Bombay. One of his collaborators on the project was classical pianist and orchestral arranger John Barham, while other contributors include Indian classical musicians Aashish Khan, Shivkumar Sharma, Shankar Ghosh and Mahapurush...
In music, a section is a complete, but not independent, musical idea. Types of sections include the introduction or intro, exposition, development, recapitulation, verse, chorus or refrain, conclusion, coda or outro, fadeout, bridge or interlude. In sectional forms such as binary, the larger unit is built from various smaller clear-cut units in combination, analogous to stanzas in poetry or somewhat like stacking Lego. Some well known songs consist of only one or two sections, for example Jingle Bells commonly contains verses and choruses . It may contain auxiliary members such as an introduction andor outro, especially when accompanied by instruments . A section is, a major structural unit perceived as the result of the coincidence of relatively large numbers of structural phenomena. An episode may also refer to a section. This term is particularly common in analysis of a fugue to designate sections during which a fugue subject is not heard though it may still draw on motifs from the subject. After the opening exposition, fugues generally follow a plan of alternating...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 547 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Self-supervised learning is a paradigm in machine learning where a model is trained on a task using the data itself to generate supervisory signals, rather than relying on externally-provided labels. In the context of neural networks, self-supervised learning aims to leverage inherent structures or relationships within the input data to create meaningful training signals. SSL tasks are designed so that solving them requires capturing essential features or relationships in the data. The input data is typically augmented or transformed in a way that creates pairs of related samples, where one sample serves as the input, and the other is used to formulate the supervisory signal. This augmentation can involve introducing noise, cropping, rotation, or other transformations. Self-supervised learning more closely imitates the way humans learn to classify objects. During SSL, the model learns in two steps. First, the task is solved based on an auxiliary or pretext classification task using pseudo-labels, which help to initialize the model parameters. Next, the actual task is performed with supervised or unsupervised learning. Self-supervised learning has produced promising results in...
Causal inference is the process of determining the independent, actual effect of a particular phenomenon that is a component of a larger system. The main difference between causal inference and inference of association is that causal inference analyzes the response of an effect variable when a cause of the effect variable is changed. The study of why things occur is called etiology, and can be described using the language of scientific causal notation. Causal inference is said to provide the evidence of causality theorized by causal reasoning. Causal inference is widely studied across all sciences. Several innovations in the development and implementation of methodology designed to determine causality have proliferated in recent decades. Causal inference remains especially difficult where experimentation is difficult or impossible, which is common throughout most sciences. The approaches to causal inference are broadly applicable across all types of scientific disciplines, and many methods of causal inference that were designed for certain disciplines have found use in other disciplines. This article outlines the basic process behind causal inference and details some of the more conventional...
When classification is performed by a computer, statistical methods are normally used to develop the algorithm. Often, the individual observations are analyzed into a set of quantifiable properties, known variously as explanatory variables or features. These properties may variously be categorical e.g. A, B, AB or O, for blood type, ordinal , integer-valued e.g. the number of occurrences of a particular word in an email or real-valued . Other classifiers work by comparing observations to previous observations by means of a similarity or distance function. An algorithm that implements classification, especially in a concrete implementation, is known as a classifier. The term classifier sometimes also refers to the mathematical function, implemented by a classification algorithm, that maps input data to a category. Terminology across fields is quite varied. In statistics, where classification is often done with logistic regression or a similar procedure, the properties of observations are termed explanatory variables or independent variables, regressors, etc., and the categories to be predicted...
Topological deep learning is a research field that extends deep learning to handle complex, non-Euclidean data structures. Traditional deep learning models, such as convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks , excel in processing data on regular grids and sequences. However, scientific and real-world data often exhibit more intricate data domains encountered in scientific computations, including point clouds, meshes, time series, scalar fields graphs, or general topological spaces like simplicial complexes and CW complexes. TDL addresses this by incorporating topological concepts to process data with higher-order relationships, such as interactions among multiple entities and complex hierarchies. This approach leverages structures like simplicial complexes and hypergraphs to capture global dependencies and qualitative spatial properties, offering a more nuanced representation of data. TDL also encompasses methods from computational and algebraic topology that permit studying properties of neural networks and their training process, such as their predictive performance or generalization properties. The mathematical foundations of TDL are algebraic...
Artificial intelligence in healthcare refers to the application of artificial intelligence to medical and healthcare data in areas including disease diagnosis, treatment planning, patient monitoring, drug development, and clinical decision support systems. The use of AI in healthcare has also raised ethical, technical, and regulatory concerns, including related to issues such as data privacy, automation of jobs, and amplifying already existing algorithmic bias. Studies have also examined concerns among patients, health professionals, and the public about trust and empathy in care involving AI.  Applications in healthcare systems   Disease diagnosis  Accurate and early diagnosis of diseases is still a challenge in healthcare. Recognizing medical conditions and their symptoms is a complex problem. AI can assist clinicians with data processing capabilities to save time and improve accuracy. Through the use of machine learning, artificial intelligence can substantially aid doctors in patient diagnosis through the analysis of mass electronic health records . AI can help early prediction, for example, of Alzheimer's disease and dementias, by looking through large numbers...
Extreme learning machines are feedforward neural networks for classification, regression, clustering, sparse approximation, compression and feature learning with a single layer or multiple layers of hidden nodes, where the parameters of hidden nodes not just the weights connecting inputs to hidden nodes need to be tuned. These hidden nodes can be randomly assigned and never updated i.e. they are random projection but with nonlinear transforms, or can be inherited from their ancestors without being changed. In most cases, the output weights of hidden nodes are usually learned in a single step, which essentially amounts to learning a linear model. The name extreme learning machine was given to such models by Guang-Bin Huang who originally proposed for the networks with any type of nonlinear piecewise continuous hidden nodes including biological neurons and different type of mathematical basis functions. The idea for artificial neural networks goes back to Frank Rosenblatt, who not only published a single layer perceptron in 1958, but also introduced a multilayer perceptron with 3 layers: an input layer, a hidden layer with randomized weights that did not learn, and a learning...
Machine Learning is a peer-reviewed scientific journal, published since 1986. In 2001, forty editors and members of the editorial board of Machine Learning resigned in order to support the Journal of Machine Learning Research , saying that in the era of the internet, it was detrimental for researchers to continue publishing their papers in expensive journals with pay-access archives. Instead, they wrote, they supported the model of JMLR, in which authors retained copyright over their papers and archives were freely available on the internet. Following the mass resignation, Kluwer changed their publishing policy to allow authors to self-archive their papers online after peer-review.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in several databases, for example in:  Selected articles  J.R. Quinlan . Induction of Decision Trees. Machine Learning. 1: 81-106. doi:10.1007BF00116251. Nick Littlestone . Learning Quickly When Irrelevant Attributes Abound: A New Linear-threshold Algorithm . Machine Learning. 2 : 285-318. doi:10.1007BF00116827. Archived from the original on 2022-07-02. Retrieved 2020-02-22. John R. Anderson and...
Horovod is a free and open-source distributed deep learning training framework for TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch and Apache MNet. It is designed to scale existing single-GPU training scripts to efficiently run on multiple GPUs and computer nodes with minimal code changes, using synchronous data-parallel training based on the ring-allreduce communication pattern. Horovod was initially developed at Uber and released as an open-source project in 2017, and is now hosted by the LF AI  Data Foundation, a project of the Linux Foundation.  History  Horovod was created at Uber as part of the company's internal machine learning platform Michelangelo to simplify scaling TensorFlow models across many GPUs. The first public release of the library, version 0.9.0, was tagged on GitHub in August 2017 under the Apache 2.0 licence. In October 2017, Uber Engineering publicly introduced Horovod as an open-source component of its deep learning toolkit. In February 2018 Alexander Sergeev and Mike Del Balso published a technical paper describing Horovod's design and benchmarking its performance on up to 512 GPUs, showing near-linear scaling for several image-classification models when compared with single...
Sbastien Bubeck is a French-American computer scientist. He was Microsoft's vice president of applied research, distinguished scientist, and led the Machine Learning Foundations group at Microsoft Research Redmond. Bubeck was formerly an assistant professor at Princeton University and a researcher at the University of California, Berkeley. He is known for his contributions to online learning, optimization and more recently studying deep neural networks, and in particular transformer models. Since 2024, he works for OpenAI.  Work  Bubeck's work spans a wide variety of topics in machine learning, theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence. Some of his most notable contributions include developing minimax rate for multi-armed bandits, linear bandits, developing an optimal algorithm for bandit convex optimization, and solving long-standing problems in k-server and metrical task systems. In regard to the mathematical theory of neural networks, Bubeck has both introduced and proved the law of robustness which links the number of parameters of a neural network and its regularity properties. Bubeck has also made contributions to convex optimization...
In deep learning, fine-tuning is the process of adapting a computational model trained for one task to perform a different, usually more specific, task . It is considered a form of transfer learning, as it reuses knowledge learned from the original training objective. Fine-tuning involves applying additional training to the parameters of a neural network that have been pre-trained. Many variants exist. The additional training can be applied to the entire neural network, or to only a subset of its layers, in which case the layers that are not being fine-tuned are frozen . A model may also be augmented with adapters-lightweight modules inserted into the model's architecture that nudge the embedding space for domain adaptation. These contain far fewer parameters than the original model and can be fine-tuned in a parameter-efficient way by tuning only their weights and leaving the rest of the model's weights frozen. For some architectures, such as convolutional neural networks, it is common to keep the earlier layers frozen, as they capture lower...
In the field of artificial intelligence , alignment aims to steer AI systems toward a person's or group's intended goals, preferences, or ethical principles. An AI system is considered aligned if it advances the intended objectives. A misaligned AI system pursues unintended objectives. It is often difficult for AI designers to specify the full range of desired and undesired behaviors. Therefore, the designers often use simpler proxy goals, such as gaining human approval. But proxy goals can overlook necessary constraints or reward the AI system for merely appearing aligned. AI systems may also find loopholes that allow them to accomplish their proxy goals efficiently but in unintended, sometimes harmful, ways . Advanced AI systems may develop unwanted instrumental strategies, such as seeking power or self-preservation because such strategies help them achieve their assigned final goals. Furthermore, they might develop undesirable emergent behaviour that could be hard to detect before the system is deployed and encounters new situations and data distributions. Empirical research in 2024 found that advanced large language models such as OpenAI o1 or Claude 3...
The history of artificial intelligence began in antiquity, with myths, stories, and rumors of artificial beings endowed with intelligence by master craftsmen. The field of research that eventually evolved into what is widely described as artifical intelligence was founded at a workshop held on the campus of Dartmouth College in 1956. At the workshop, a concept of the first AI program, Logic Theorist, was presented by future Turing Awardee Allen Newell and future Nobel Laureate Herbert A. Simon, with help from J. C. Shaw. The software architecture of this program differed from modern AI systems in that it was a hand-written fixed script. Attendees of the workshop became the leaders of AI research for decades. Many of them predicted that machines as intelligent as humans would exist within a generation. Despite the eventual success of its attendees and the field as a whole, the workshop was considered a failure. When the workshop failed to deliver, AI was dismissed as a pipe dream and research funding dried up. It became apparent that researchers had underestimated the complexity of this objective. In 1974, criticism from James Lighthill and pressure from the U.S. Congress led...
Hugging Face, Inc., is a French-American company based in New York City that develops computation tools for building applications using machine learning. Hugging Face's Transformers library is built for natural language processing applications. The Hugging Face platform allows users to share machine learning models and datasets and showcase their work.  History   Founding  The company was founded in 2016 by French entrepreneurs Clment Delangue, Julien Chaumond, and Thomas Wolf in New York City, originally as a company that developed a chatbot app targeted at teenagers. The company was named after the U1F917  HUGGING FACE emoji. After open sourcing the model behind the chatbot, the company pivoted to focus on being a platform for machine learning.  AI boom  On April 28, 2021, the company launched the BigScience Research Workshop in collaboration with several other research groups to release an open large language model. In 2022, the workshop concluded with the announcement of BLOOM, a multilingual large language model with 176 billion parameters. In February 2023, the company announced a partnership with Amazon Web Services that would allow Hugging Face's products...
In artificial neural networks, recurrent neural networks are designed for processing sequential data, such as text, speech, and time series, where the order of elements is important. Unlike feedforward neural networks, which process inputs independently, RNNs utilize recurrent connections, where the output of a neuron at one time step is fed back as input to the network at the next time step. This enables RNNs to capture temporal dependencies and patterns within sequences. The fundamental building block of RNN is the recurrent unit, which maintains a hidden state-a form of memory that is updated at each time step based on the current input and the previous hidden state. This feedback mechanism allows the network to learn from past inputs and incorporate that knowledge into its current processing. RNNs have been successfully applied to tasks such as unsegmented, connected handwriting recognition, speech recognition, natural language processing, and neural machine translation. However, traditional RNNs suffer from the vanishing gradient problem, which limits their ability to learn long-range dependencies. This issue was addressed by the development of the long short-term memory...
In the field of artificial intelligence , a hallucination or artificial hallucination also called bullshitting, confabulation, delusion, or mirage is a response generated by AI that contains false or misleading information presented as fact. These terms draw a loose analogy with human psychology, where a hallucination typically involves false percepts. Chatbots powered by large language models , like ChatGPT, may embed plausible-sounding random falsehoods within its generated content, such as fabricated citations. Detecting and mitigating errors and hallucinations pose significant challenges for practical deployment and reliability of LLMs in high-stakes scenarios, such as chip design, supply chain logistics, and medical diagnostics. Some software engineers and statisticians have criticized the specific term AI hallucination for unreasonably anthropomorphizing computers. Symbolic artificial intelligence models generally do not produce hallucinations, unlike large language models.  Term   Origin  In computer vision, since the 2000s, hallucination is adding detail to an image to improve it. For example, the task of generating high-resolution face images from low...
In machine learning, knowledge distillation or model distillation is the process of transferring knowledge from a large model to a smaller one. While large models such as very deep neural networks or ensembles of many models  have more knowledge capacity than small models, this capacity might not be fully utilized. It can be just as computationally expensive to evaluate a model even if it utilizes little of its knowledge capacity. Knowledge distillation transfers knowledge from a large model to a smaller one without loss of validity. As smaller models are less expensive to evaluate, they can be deployed on less powerful hardware . There is also a less common technique called Reverse Knowledge Distillation, where knowledge is transferred from a smaller model to a larger one. Model distillation is not to be confused with model compression, which describes methods to decrease the size of a large model itself, without training a new model. Model compression generally preserves the architecture and the nominal parameter count of the model, while decreasing the bits-per-parameter. Knowledge distillation has been successfully used in several applications of machine...
In machine learning, reinforcement learning from human feedback is a technique to align an intelligent agent with human preferences. It involves training a reward model to represent preferences, which can then be used to train other models through reinforcement learning. In classical reinforcement learning, an intelligent agent's goal is to learn a function that guides its behavior, called a policy. The function is iteratively optimized to increase the reward signal derived from the agent's task performance. However, explicitly defining a reward function that accurately approximates human preferences is challenging. Therefore, RLHF seeks to train a reward model directly from human feedback. The reward model is first trained in a supervised manner to predict if a response to a given prompt is good or bad based on ranking data collected from human annotators. This model then serves as a reward function to improve an agent's policy through an optimization algorithm like proximal policy optimization. RLHF has applications in various domains in machine learning, including natural language processing tasks such as text summarization and conversational agents...
Data annotation is the process within a dataset of adding relevant metadata labels or tags to enable machines to interpret the data in line with its intended use. Data is a fundamental component in the development of artificial intelligence . Data annotation allows AI models to interpret data. For example, it may inform the model that a particular set of pixels is a picture of a bicycle, or that a particular structure of sentence should be interpreted as a mathematical formula. Training AI models, particularly in computer vision and natural language processing, requires large volumes of annotated data. Annotation choices determine how machine learning algorithms recognize patterns and also drive the predictions they make. The dataset can take various forms, including images, text, audio files and video footage. Data annotation labels can be human-generated, system-generated, or a mix of both. The availability of large-scale annotated datasets has been a major factor in the development of modern artificial intelligence systems particularly deep learning models that require vast quantities of labelled examples.  Applications  Data annotation is used in almost all fields...
Brian Desmond Anthony Hannon was a Church of Ireland clergyman, who was Bishop of Clogher from 1986 to 2001. He was also the father of the singer and songwriter Neil Hannon, lead member of The Divine Comedy. Hannon was educated at Trinity College Dublin, and ordained in 1962. His first post was a curacy in Clooney, County Londonderry after which he was the incumbent at Desertmartin, County Londonderry. He ministered in Derry, County Londonderry, from 1969 to 1982, during the time of The Troubles. He then moved to the Church of Ireland Diocese of Clogher, as rector of the Cathedral Parish of Enniskillen in County Fermanagh, and became Dean of Clogher in 1985. He was raised to the episcopate as Bishop of Clogher in 1986. He retired on 5 October 2001, his sixty-fifth birthday. Hannon died on 10 January 2022, at the age of 85.  References 
The Time of Infinity is an anthology of science fiction stories edited by American writer August Derleth. It was first published by Consul in 1963 and collects nine stories from Derleth's earlier anthology The Outer Reaches. The stories had originally appeared in the magazines Fantastic Adventures, Astounding Stories, Thrilling Wonder Stories, Galaxy Science Fiction and Amazing Stories or in the anthology Invasion from Mars edited by Orson Welles.  Contents  The Ship Sails at Midnight, by Fritz Leiber The Power, by Murray Leinster The Critters, by Frank Belknap Long Pardon My Mistake, by Fletcher Pratt Good Night, Mr. James, by Clifford D. Simak The Plutonian Drug, by Clark Ashton Smith Farewell to Eden, by Theodore Sturgeon Co-Operate-or Else!, by A. E. van Vogt Finality Unlimited, by Donald Wandrei  References  Contento, William G. Index to Science Fiction Anthologies and Collections. Archived from the original on 2007-03-16. Retrieved 2008-01-07. Tuck, Donald H. . The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and Fantasy. Chicago: Advent. p. 139. ISBN 0-911682-20-1.
The Supercopa do Brasil Sub-20, is an official Brazilian national football super cup tournament for U-20 teams, reuniting the champions of Campeonato Brasileiro Sub-20 and Copa do Brasil Sub-20 of the season.  List of champions  Following there are all the Supercup U-20 editions:  Titles by club   See also  Supercopa do Brasil Sub-17  References 
The Pombaline style was a Portuguese architectural style of the 18th century, named after Sebastio Jos de Carvalho e Melo, the first Marqus de Pombal, who was instrumental in reconstructing Lisbon after the earthquake of 1755. Pombal supervised the plans drawn up by the military engineers Manuel da Maia, Eugnio dos Santos and Elias Sebastio Pope . The new city mostly the Baixa area now called Baixa Pombalina was laid out on a grid plan with roads and pavements fixed at 40 ft wide . The previously standing Royal Palace was replaced with the Praa do Comrcio which, along with square Rossio, defines the limits of the new city. Maia and Santos also outlined the form of the facades that were to line the streets, conceived on a hierarchical scheme whereby detail and size were delineated by the importance of the street. These were in a notably restrained Neoclassical style partly the result of limited funds and the urgency of building but also thanks to the enlightenment concept of architectural rationality adhered to by Pombal. A standardized system of decoration was applied both inside and out with a distinctively reduced application of azulejo...
Islamic libraries are libraries associated with Islam and Islamic history. An essential term for Islam, the first word in the Quran is Iqra. This term simply means 'read', as Muslims are encouraged, through the influence of Muhammad, to devote their lives to the pursuit of knowledge at all times. The Quran uses repetition in its text to emphasize concepts and values to those who follow it. Not only does this assist with the memorization of the text, but also reiterates the importance of its values. For example, the word Ilm, meaning knowledge, is repeated 750 times.  Early decades of Islamic libraries  Mosques were the center of many intellectual pursuits, becoming a nexus for educational, political, and religious activities. Also housed at the mosques were books on religion, philosophy, and science that were written, studied, and annotated by Muslim scholars and scientists from different scientific backgrounds. Due to this, hundreds of works were produced, some by one scholar alone. Ibn Hazm, for example, wrote about 400 volumes, totaling 80,000 pages. This eventually led to libraries being the main educational centers for Muslims, emphasizing subjects such as natural philosophy...
Clara Brett Martin was a Canadian lawyer. She opened the way for women to become lawyers in Canada by being the first female lawyer in the British Empire in 1897.  Life and career  Clara was born in Toronto in 1874. She was the twelfth and youngest child of Abraham and Elizabeth Martin, Anglican-Irish farmers. The family placed great importance on education her father had been a superintendent of education for the township and at least three of her siblings became teachers. All her siblings attended university. In 1890, Martin was accepted to Trinity College in Toronto, only three years after it began to admit women. In 1893, she graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in mathematics at the age of sixteen, which was almost unheard of because of the masculinity associated with that field at the time. In 1891, Martin submitted a petition to the Law Society of Upper Canada to permit her to become a student member, a prerequisite to articling as a clerk, attending lectures and sitting the exams required to receive a certificate of fitness to practice as a solicitor. Her petition was rejected by the Law Society after contentious debate, with the Special...
Rafael Santos Torroella was a Spanish art critic, translator and poet.  Biography  Brother of ngels Santos Torroella, he wrote several books on Joan Mir, Pablo Picasso and Salvador Dal, among others, and helped renovate the avant-garde art scene in Spain after the Spanish Civil War. Santos published his Antologa Potica in 1952. He is considered as a major authority in the artistic universe. His bibliography is very important references in all important libraries, not only in European countries but all around the world. A lot of books and works, particularly about Mir and Dal, have really established his fame. But it seems that his life is not very well known.  References 
Sarotherodon lamprechti is a species of cichlid endemic to Lake Ejagham in western Cameroon. This phytoplanktivore can reach a length of 9.9 centimetres SL. It has not yet been rated by the IUCN, but it likely faces the same risks as the critically endangered Coptodon deckerti, which is threatened by pollution and sedimentation from human activities, a catfish from the genus Parauchenoglanis that has been introduced to the lake, and potentially also by large emissions of carbon dioxide from the lake's bottom , although Ejagham is too shallow to contain very high amounts of this gas. The specific name honours Jrg Lamprecht who worked at the Max Planck Institute in Seewiesen in Germany where he worked on a Ph.D. on haplotilapiine cichlids and supported Ulrich K. Schliewen as a mentor and Dirk Neumann as a teacher.  References 
Locust Grove is a historic home located on a 32-acre tract. at Lynchburg, Virginia. It is a five-bay, double-pile, central-passage-plan. 112-story, timberframe, four end chimney Federal-style house.  History  Samuel Cobbs who had represented nearby Amelia County in the House of Burgesses in 1747 in 1758 willed his 1,000-acre acre estate to his brothers Edmund and John. John P. Cobbs and later John C. Cobbs would represent Nelson County in the Virginia House of Delegates, the latter possibly the son of Edmund Cobbs Jr. below. Edmund Cobbs in 1760 erected a house on the Bedford County property, and when he died in 1798, his widow received 260-acre acres and six sons shared about 960-acre acres. Tilghman Cobbs would first represent Bedford County in the state legislature in 1829 and again in 1839-1840. Edmund Cobbs Jr. had acquired about 294-acre acres on Cheese Creek, about 5 miles from his father's land, and began the current house in 1810, before acquiring the 260-acre dower land in an auction after his mother's death in 1814. He enlarged the house significantly between 1825 and 1830 to its present central-passage plan...
Mardan Sports Complex is a multi-purpose stadium in Aksu, Antalya, Turkey. It is currently used mostly for football matches, and it hosted matches during the 2008 UEFA European Under-17 Championship, including the final. The stadium has a seating capacity of 7,428.  References   External links  Venue information
Hispanoamrica, canto de vida y esperanza Hispanic America, a song of life and hope is a Spanish historical documentary film. It was directed by Jos Luis Lpez-Linares and released in 2024.  Contents  The documentary follows its previous chapter Espaa, la primera globalizacin and gathers 50 experts from multiple Hispanic countries with the goal of refuting the Spanish Black Legend and offer a renewed, truthful and visually powerful about how Spanish America actually emerged and developed. Its title is a reference to Nicaraguan poet Rubn Daro's work Cantos de vida y esperanza.  People interviewed   Production  Like its predecessors, Hispanoamrica was produced mostly through a crowdfunding campaign, receiving 222,000 from 4,000 users since the beginning of the project in 2022. It was shot in Spain, Ecuador, Per, Bolivia, Mxico and the United States.  Release  The documentary's premiere, which was attended by King Felipe VI of Spain, introduced it among the ten biggest box office successes of the year in Spain despite its limited distribution in only 60 theaters. It grossed 93,908 the first week, becoming the most watched documentary of the year in...
Robert James Zdarsky , better known by his stage name Robert Z'Dar, was an American character actor and film producer, best known for his role as officer Matt Cordell in the cult slasher film Maniac Cop and its two sequels, as well as appearances in Tango  Cash and Samurai Cop . Z'Dar worked mainly in low-budget B movies and direct-to-video features, but occasionally in mainstream Hollywood films and television. Due to his cherubism, a medical condition resulting in an enlarged jawline, Z'dar had a unique and easily recognizable look, which aided his career as he usually portrayed villains. A prolific actor, Z'Dar appeared in 121 films over the course of his 39-year career.  Early life  Robert James Zdarsky was born on June 3, 1950, in Chicago, Illinois, Z'Dar was of Lithuanian descent. He first started acting while attending Proviso West High School in Hillside, Illinois. After high school, Z'Dar attended Arizona State University where he received a bachelor of fine arts and played on the university football team. After graduation, Z'Dar returned to Chicago, where he was employed as a Chicago police officer, member of the band...
Nigeria competed at the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London, United Kingdom from 29 August - 9 September 2012. Nigerian Paralympians combined won more medals than their Olympic counterparts in London, winning 6 golds, 5 silvers and 2 bronze medals. The 2012 Paralympic Games played an important role in Nigerian society in terms of assisting in changing people's attitudes towards people with disabilities. In some cases, this allowed Nigerian medalists to return home and be the primary breadwinner for their families. Powerlifting was Nigeria's dominant sport in London. Following the team's success in the sport, Sports Minister Bolaji Abdullahi was quoted as saying that additional money would be funneled to the sport to build on the country's success in it  Background  Babagana Ali was quoted by the BBC as saying of the 2012 Paralympics, Paralympics is a clear indication to disabled persons in Nigeria and Africa alike that they can something good with their lives better than begging. It also challenges African leaders to assist people with disability because they can equally bring pride to their countries. In many parts of Black Africa, people who have disabilities that include...
Viktor Uzbek is a professional Ukrainian football who plays for Moldovan club FC Iskra-Stal.  Career  Uzbek turned professional and played two games for PFC Sevastopol in the Ukrainian First League.  External links  Official Website Profile Viktor Uzbek at UAF
Talbehat is a nagar panchayat city in Lalitpur district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. The Talbehat Fort is situated on the Jhansi-Lalitpur four lane road. Raja Thakur Mardan Singh Bundela ruled from this fort and in 1857 he fought there against the British alongside Rani Laxmi Bai. The Fort contains three temples, dedicated to Angad, Hanuman and Narsimha. The Fort has massive structures and is situated on the bank of the large Mansarovar Lake. This lake is suitable for various water sports activities. The Hazaria Mahadev Temple is situated on the banks of the lake. Talbehat is also a tehsil headquarters. The tehsil in the Talbehat area is divided into six revenue inspector circles. Talbehat is also famous for its production of Iron Kadhai, Tawa, cook wares and Axe. It has a Mini Industrial Area to facilitate the production. There are many Iron factories operating here.  Demographics  As of 2011 India census, Talbehat has a population of 14,176 divided into 12 wards. Male population is 7,452 and that of female is 6,724. Talbehat has an average literacy rate of 79.40, higher than state average of 67.68, male literacy is 85.20, and female literacy is 72.96. In...
Until 1838, the Sussex county cricket team, always known as Sussex, was organised by individual patrons and other groups, particularly by Charles Lennox, 2nd Duke of Richmond, in the first half of the 18th century, and by Brighton Cricket Club in the second half. The team played historically important matches from the early 18th century until the formation of Sussex County Cricket Club on 1 March 1839.  17th century  The first definite mention of cricket in Sussex relates to ecclesiastical court records in 1611 which state that two parishioners of Sidlesham in West Sussex failed to attend church on Easter Sunday because they were playing cricket. They were fined 12 pence each and made to do penance. A number of such cases were heard in Sussex during the 17th century and there were two instances of players dying, both in Sussex, after being struck on the head during a match. Despite these problems, cricket became established in Sussex during the 17th century and the earliest village matches took place before the English Civil War. It is believed that county teams were formed in the aftermath of the Restoration in 1660. Roy Webber, in his Phoenix History, states that the period between...
Sant'Eligio Maggiore is a church in Naples, southern Italy.  History  It is located near Piazza Mercato , and was built during the reign of Charles of Anjou by the same congregation that built the nearby Sant'Eligio hospital in 1270. It is the first church built in Naples by the Angevin dynasty and therefore the first one in Gotico Angioino style. The arched passageway that opens onto Piazza Mercato is through the original faade of the church and has since been incorporated into the structure of the ancient hospital. Many of the lines of the original structure came to light in the course of restoration after the bombardments of the World War II.  References   External links 
Petrus Greek: , Petros, also known as Peter in English c. 545 in Arabissus, Cappadocia - late 602 in Constantinople or Chalcedon was a brother of the Byzantine Emperor Maurice .  Background  Petrus was a son of Paul, head of the Byzantine Senate and a sibling to Maurice, Byzantine emperor Gordia, the wife of Philippicus and Theoctista. He had a son named Domitian, who became bishop of Melitene.  Military career  Raised to the rank of curopalates, he was an important general in the Byzantine army. Together with Priscus and Comentiolus, he was one of the three commanders-in-chief during Maurice's Balkan campaigns. Though less able than Priscus, he succeeded the latter as leader of the Roman forces in Moesia in 594, being more loyal to the emperor, his own brother. The reason for this replacement was Priscus' refusal to obey the emperor's orders to spend the winter on the northern Danube bank in 593 and to carry on fighting the Slavs. Petrus defeated the Slavs in 594 near Marcianopolis and maintained the Danube between Novae and the Danube Delta. Later on, he crossed the Danube and fought his way to the Helibacia river, defeating numerous Slavic tribes...
HSE University , officially the National Research University Higher School of Economics Russian:      , is a public research university founded in 1992 and headquartered in Moscow, Russia. Along with its main campus, located in the capital, the university maintains three other regional campuses in Saint Petersburg, Nizhny Novgorod, and Perm. It also has an online campus. There is also the Lyceum at HSE University in Moscow. HSE was the first educational institution in Russia that successfully introduced bachelor's and master's degrees and had also taken part in the development and implementation of the Unified State Exam to modernize the Russian education and health care systems. HSE offers education at all levels: from a lyceum for school students to post-graduate and MBA programmes. Students can pursue training in a number of fields, including the social sciences, economics, humanities, law, engineering, computer science, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and biotechnology, as well as in creative disciplines. Furthermore, university representatives are part of the Civic Chamber...
The Journal of Media Economics is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering all aspects of media economics published by Routledge. The current editors-in-chief are Michel Clement Marketing  Media, Hamburg Business School, University of Hamburg and Jan. U. Becker . The Journal of Media Economics has appointed a number of Area Editors that are outstanding experts in their field. Specifically, the AEs represent the research fields: Media Economics, Econometrics, Analytics, Media Management, Entertainment Science, Media Strategy, Innovation Management  Digital Media, and Technology Management. The journal was established in 1988 with Robert G. Picard as founding editor.  Aims  Scope  The Journal of Media Economics publishes original research on the economics and policy of mediated communication, focusing on firms, markets, and institutions. Reflecting the increasing diversity of analytical approaches employed in economics and recognizing that policies promoting social and political objectives may have significant economic impacts on media, the journal encourages submissions reflecting the insights of diverse disciplinary perspectives and...
The economics of marriage includes the economic analysis of household formation and break up, of production and distribution decisions within the household. It is closely related to the law and economics of marriages and households. Grossbard-Shechtman identifies three approaches to the subject: the Marxist approach and Himmelweit and Mohun , the neo-classical approach  and the game theoretic approaches Marilyn Manser, Murray Brown, Marjorie McElroy and Mary Jane Horney. Marital status has a positive influence on economic status. There is a marriage prime for males that the wage of married males is 15 higher than the wage of never married male. The Uniform Marital Property Act issued clause on the distribution of marital property and individual property. The Uniform Premarital Agreements Act offers clauses to guide two spouses to make an agreement on distribution of rights and obligations before marriage.  Economic origins of marriage  Richard Wrangham puts forward the view that women cooking for men is fundamental to marriage in hunter-gatherer societies. Many such examples suggest that the mating system...
Milton Friedman's book Essays in Positive Economics is a collection of earlier articles by the author with as its lead an original essay The Methodology of Positive Economics. This essay posits Friedman's famous, but controversial, principle that assumptions need not be realistic to serve as scientific hypotheses they merely need to make significant predictions.  Contents of the book  The book is organized in four parts: Introduction The Methodology of Positive Economics Price Theory The Marshallian Demand Curve The 'Welfare' Effects of an Income Tax and an Excise Tax Monetary Theory and Policy The Effects of a Full-Employment Policy on Economic Stability: A Formal Analysis A Monetary and Fiscal Framework for Economic Stability The Case for Flexible Exchange Rates Commodity-Reserve Currency Discussion of the Inflationary Gap Comments on Monetary Policy Comments on Method Lange on Price Flexibility and Employment - A Methodological Criticism Lerner on the Economics of Control  The Methodology of Positive Economics  This first essay in the book explores John Neville Keynes's distinction between positive and normative economics, what...
In economics, the economics of location is the study of strategies used by firms and retails in a monopolistically competitive environment in determining where to locate. Unlike a product differentiation strategy, where firms make their products different in order to attract customers, an economics of location strategy is consistent with firms producing similar or identical products. The economics of location refers to the study of the factors that influence the location of economic activity and the spatial distribution of economic phenomena. This includes the study of how businesses and industries choose where to locate, how the location of economic activity affects the local economy and society, and how government policies and other factors can influence the location of economic activity. One important factor that influences the location of economic activity is access to inputs such as labor, capital, and raw materials. Businesses and industries tend to locate in areas where these inputs are abundant and inexpensive, as this can help to reduce production costs and increase profits. For example, a manufacturing company may choose to locate near a large pool of skilled labor, or a resource...
James Richard Tatro is an American actor and YouTuber. He is the creator and star of the YouTube channel LifeAccordingToJimmy, which has more than 3.34 million subscribers and over 746 million video views. Tatro writes, produces and directs each of his video sketches with his friend, Christian A. Pierce. Tatro has appeared in Grown Ups 2, 22 Jump Street, Blue Mountain State: The Rise of Thadland, Boo! A Madea Halloween, and Stuber. He also starred in the first season of the true-crime mockumentary American Vandal as Dylan Maxwell, which garnered him critical acclaim and a Critics Choice Award nomination. From 2021 to 2023, Tatro had a main role as Connor on the ABC sitcom Home Economics.  Early life  Tatro attended Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California. He started making comical videos with friends in high school, and then continued to do so at the University of Arizona. He dropped out of college his junior year. While at Arizona he was a member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.  Career  Tatro has performed stand-up comedy across the country at comedy clubs and college campuses. Tatro's career segued into movies in 2013 with a minor role in...
The Economics of Happiness is a 2011 documentary film directed by Helena Norberg-Hodge, Steven Gorelick, and John Page, and produced by Local Futures formerly the International Society for Ecology and Culture.  Synopsis  The film features many voices from six continents calling for systemic economic change. The documentary describes a world moving simultaneously in two opposing directions. While government and big business continue to promote globalization and the consolidation of corporate power, people around the world are resisting those policies and working to forge a very different future. Communities are coming together to re-build more human scale, ecological economies based on a new paradigm: an economics of localization.  Recognition  The Economics of Happiness has won Best in Show at the Cinema Verde Film and Arts Festival, Best Direction from EKOFilm 2011 , Judges' Choice and Audience Choice at the Auroville International Film Festival , an Award of Merit from the Accolade Film Festival, and several other awards. In 2012, the film was listed among the top ten films as chosen by Transition town initiatives. In 2015, it was awarded...
A firm will choose to implement a shutdown of production when the revenue received from the sale of the goods or services produced cannot even cover the variable costs of production. In that situation, the firm will experience a higher loss when it produces, compared to not producing at all. Technically, shutdown occurs if average revenue is below average variable cost at the profit-maximizing positive level of output. Producing anything would not generate enough revenue to offset the associated variable costs producing some output would add further costs in excess of revenues to the costs inevitably being incurred . By not producing, the firm loses only the fixed costs.  Explanation  The goal of a firm is to maximize profits or minimize losses. The firm can achieve this goal by following two rules. First, the firm should operate, if at all, at the level of output where marginal revenue equals marginal cost. Second, the firm should shut down rather than operate if it can reduce losses by doing so.  The shutdown rule  Generally, a firm must have revenue R  T C displaystyle Rgeq TC , total...
A planned economy is a type of economic system where investment, production and the allocation of capital goods takes place according to economy-wide economic plans and production plans. A planned economy may use centralized, decentralized, participatory or Soviet-type forms of economic planning. The level of centralization or decentralization in decision-making and participation depends on the specific type of planning mechanism employed. Socialist states based on the Soviet model have used central planning, although a minority, such as the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, adopted some degree of market socialism. Market abolitionist socialism replaces factor markets with direct calculation as the means to coordinate the activities of the various socially owned economic enterprises that make up the economy. More recent approaches to socialist planning and allocation have come from some economists and computer scientists proposing planning mechanisms based on advances in computer science and information technology. Planned economies contrast with unplanned economies, specifically market economies, where autonomous firms operating in markets make decisions about production...
National Economics University NEU Vietnamese: i hc Kinh t Quc dn is a public research university in Hanoi, Vietnam. Founded in 1956, its history and influence have made it the leading universities in Economics, Public Administration and Business Administration in Vietnam. NEU is now chairing a network of more than 40 universities in Vietnam in economics and business administration. It is also a prestigious research and consultation center with its publications and consulting works to the government of Vietnam on policy making and to the business community on business development. Since its establishment, NEU has paid special attention to developing international academic cooperation. It has formed partnership relationship with over 100 institutions and organizations from 30 countries, including Australia, Belgium, Cambodia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, Laos, Netherlands, South Korea, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Italy and United States. The university has been involved in research projects in cooperation with large governmental organizations and international financial institutions such as the Japanese International Cooperation Agency , the Foundation of Vietnam...
The Dhaka School of Economics is an autonomous institution under the University of Dhaka. DScE was founded in April 2010, following the model of the London School of Economics, to promote higher studies and research in economics and related subjects. Its goal is to accommodate the fast-growing demand for well-trained economists and professionals in related subjects. The current acting director of the Dhaka School of Economics is Rehana Parvin, a Bangladeshi academic. She is also currently serving as the Coordinator of the Department of Entrepreneurship Economics at the Dhaka School of Economics, a constituent institution of the University of Dhaka.  History  DScE resulted from the efforts of Bangladeshi economists to establish a Center of Excellence for higher studies in economics and related subjects, following the model of London School of Economics. Bangladesh Economic Association , led by its then President Qazi Kholiquzzaman Ahmad, took decisive steps that led to the founding of Dhaka School of Economics . Its establishment was announced by Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on 8 April 2010 at the biennial conference...
Neo-Schumpeterian economics is a school of thought that places technological innovation at the core of economic growth and transformation processes. It is inspired by the work of Joseph Schumpeter, who coined the term creative destruction for the continuous introduction of technological change that drives growth by replacing old, less productive structures with new, more productive ones. Where Schumpeter explained the innovation drive by an exogenous factor called entrepreneurial spirits, neo-Schumpeterian economists refer to endogenous factors such as science and technology policies and corporate strategies of research and development to explain innovation. Neo-Schumpeterian economics is a form of evolutionary economics and is closely related to innovation studies.  History  In the aftermath of World War II, policymakers became increasingly convinced of the importance of science and technology policy. Quantitative research into the relation between economic growth and science and technology expenditures became a possibility with the global application of national accounts in the 1950s and the adoption in 1963 of the Frascati manual, an internationally accepted approach to measuring...
Within economics, margin is a concept used to describe the current level of consumption or production of a goods or service. Margin also encompasses various concepts within economics, denoted as marginal concepts, which are used to explain the specific change in the quantity of goods and services produced and consumed. These concepts are central to the economic theory of marginalism. This is a theory that states that economic decisions are made in reference to incremental units at the margin, and it further suggests that the decision on whether an individual or entity will obtain additional units of a good or service depends on the marginal utility of the product. These marginal concepts are used to theorise various market behaviours and form the basis of price theory. It is a central idea within microeconomics and is used to predict the demand and supply of goods and services within an economy.  Marginal concepts   Marginal cost  Marginal cost is the change in monetary cost associated with an increase in the quantity of production of a certain good or service. It is measured in dollars per unit, and includes all the variable costs that alter depending on the level of production...
The Agricultural and Applied Economics Association is a professional association of people working in agricultural and applied economics.  History  In 1910, the American Farm Management Association was founded at Iowa State University. In 1919, the association was renamed the American Farm Economics Association. In 1968, a group left the organization and formed the American Agricultural Economics Association. The organisation was later renamed the Agricultural and Applied Economics Association. The association holds an annual meeting. The Journal of the Agricultural and Applied Economics Association was launched in 2021. Fellows of the association include Scott H. Irwin and Elisabeth Sadoulet.  Journals  The association publishes three journals, all of which are published by Wiley: American Journal of Agricultural Economics Applied Economic Perspectives and Policy Journal of the Agricultural and Applied Economics Association  References   External links  Official website
The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy German: Bundesministerium fr Wirtschaft und Energie,  abbreviated BMWE, formerly BMWK and BMWi is a cabinet-level ministry of the Federal Republic of Germany. It was previously known as the Ministry of Economy. It was recreated in 2005 as Ministry of Economics and Technology after it had previously been merged with other ministries to form the Federal Ministry for Economics and Labour between 2002 and 2005. The ministry is advised by the Council of Advisors on Digital Economy.  History  The historical predecessor of the current Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action was the Reichswirtschaftsamt , founded in 1917. In 1919, this became the Reichswirtschaftsministerium , which existed until 1945. In postwar occupied Germany, its functions were exercised by the Administrative Office of Economy between 1946 and 1949. After the founding of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Ministry of Economics existed from 1949...
Economic liberalism is a political and economic ideology that supports a market economy based on individualism and private property in the means of production. Adam Smith is considered one of the primary initial writers on economic liberalism, and his writing is generally regarded as representing the economic expression of 19th-century liberalism up until the Great Depression and rise of Keynesianism in the 20th century. Historically, economic liberalism arose in response to feudalism and mercantilism. Economic liberalism is associated with markets and private ownership of capital assets. Economic liberals tend to oppose government intervention and protectionism in the market economy when it inhibits free trade and competition, but tend to support government intervention where it protects property rights, opens new markets or funds market growth, and resolves market failures. They also tend to oppose cartels, monopolies, financialization of the economy, rent-seeking behaviour and unproductive classes reliant on rent, assets or state-granted privileges. An economy that is managed according to these precepts may be described as a liberal economy or operating under liberal capitalism....
The University of Economics and Law UEL Vietnamese: Trng i hc Kinh t - Lut, i hc Quc gia Thnh ph H Ch Minh, or VNU-HCM University of Economics and Law, is a university in Linh un ward, Th c, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. It is a member institution of university of Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City . It was previously known as VNU-HCM Faculty of Economics and was upgraded to university on March 24, 2010. To be able to meet the demands of socio-economic development in Vietnam as the industrialization, modernization, and global integration of Vietnam are on the rise, the University of Economics and Law has become a leading higher education institution and a center for scientific research and technology transfer of high quality in the fields of economics, law, and management. As one of the renowned and well-known universities in Vietnam, the University of Economics and Law has a broad range of courses in business and law, including courses in finance, management, technology and marketing international law, trade law, and securities law, among many other courses. There is a challenging and tough competitive admissions test for...
The welfare definition of economics is an attempt by Alfred Marshall, a pioneer of neoclassical economics, to redefine his field of study. This definition expands the field of economic science to a larger study of humanity. Specifically, Marshall's view is that economics studies all the actions that people take in order to achieve economic welfare. In the words of Marshall, man earns money to get material welfare. Others since Marshall have described his remark as the welfare definition of economics. This definition enlarged the scope of economic science by emphasizing the study of wealth and humanity together, rather than wealth alone. In his widely read textbook, Principles of Economics, published in 1890, Marshall defines economics as follows: Political Economy or Economics is a study of mankind in the ordinary business of life it examines that part of individual and social action which is most closely connected with the attainment and with the use of material requisites of well-being.  Functions  The following are the implications of this definition: Economics is a study of humankind. Human life has several aspects: social, religious, economic and political-but economics...
Social science is one of the branches of science, devoted to the study of societies and the relationships among members within those societies. The term was formerly used to refer to the field of sociology, the original science of society, established in the 18th century. It now encompasses a wide array of additional academic disciplines, including anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, history, linguistics, management, communication studies, psychology, sociology, culturology, and political science. The majority of positivist social scientists use methods resembling those used in the natural sciences as tools for understanding societies, and so define science in its stricter modern sense. Speculative social scientists, otherwise known as interpretivist scientists, by contrast, may use social critique or symbolic interpretation rather than constructing empirically falsifiable theories, and thus treat science in its broader sense. In modern academic practice, researchers are often eclectic, using multiple methodologies combining both quantitative and qualitative research. To gain a deeper understanding of complex human behavior in digital environments...
The New Economics Foundation is a progressive British think tank that aims to create a new economy that works for people and within environmental limits. Its produces research and policy, supports on-the-ground projects, and undertakes campaigning and consultancy work. The foundation employs 43 members of staff at its London office and is active at a range of different levels. Its programmes include work on wellbeing, its own approaches to measurement and evaluation, sustainable local regeneration, its own forms of finance and business models, sustainable public services, and the economics of climate change.  History  NEF was founded in 1986 by the leaders of The Other Economic Summit with the aim of working for a new model of wealth creation based on equality, diversity and economic stability. The organisation has launched a range of new organisations to promote its ideas, including the Ethical Trading Initiative, AccountAbility, Time Banking UK, London Rebuilding Society and the Community Development Finance Association. The organisation's projects have included work on community-based housing, worker organising in the digital economy, restoring local banking and...
A net value is the resultant amount after accounting for the sum or difference of two or more variables. In economics, it is frequently used to imply the remaining value after accounting for a specific, commonly understood deduction. In these cases it is contrasted with the term gross, which refers to the pre-deduction value. For example, net income is the total income of a company after deducting its expenses-commonly known as profit-or the total income of an individual after deducting their income tax. Profit may be broken down further into pre-taxed or gross profit and profit after taxes or net profit. Similarly, an individual's net worth is the difference between their assets and their liabilities . Similarly, net investment in physical capital such as machinery equals gross investment minus the dollar amount of replacement investment that offsets depreciation of pre-existing machinery, thus giving the change in the amount of machinery available for use. Likewise, net national product equals gross national product minus depreciation.  Etymology  The word net, in this sense, originally derives from the...
The Australasian Agricultural and Resource Economics Society is an Australian professional association. It describes itself as independent association of persons and organisations interested in agricultural, resource and environmental economics. The Society, then called the Australian Agricultural Economics Society was founded at a conference convened in Sydney in February 1957, following a proposal by J.R. Currie, foundation secretary of the International Association of Agricultural Economists. In 1995 the Society determined to change its original name to that of the Australian Agricultural and Resource Economics Society. In February 2017 the Society changed its name again to the Australasian Agricultural and Resource Economics Society. The Society publishes an academic journal, the Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics. Until 1996, when it was combined with the Review of Marketing and Agricultural Economics, the Journal was called the Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics.  References   External links  Australasian Agricultural and Resource Economics Society
Borderless Economics: Chinese Sea Turtles, Indian Fridges and the New Fruits of Global Capitalism is a book by Robert Guest, business editor for The Economist. It was published by Palgrave Macmillan, and was on released November 8, 2011. The book is both a description for how global interconnectivity through migration and trade is making the world more prosperous and peaceful, and a passionate argument for more open borders around the world to help talent circulate globally.  Reception   Book reviews  Katherine Mangu-Ward, then managing editor of Reason Magazine, reviewed the book favorably for The Wall Street Journal, concluding her review as follows: It is galling to Mr. Guest that many well-meaning people are more invested in promoting ideas like Third World microcredit than in clamoring for easier immigration. Lant Pritchett, the former World Bank economist, shares Mr. Guest's skepticism about the importance of the much ballyhooed microloans that help the world's poorest people to buy livestock or open a small business. The concept was pioneered by Muhammad Yunus, the founder of Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and winner of the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize. Mr. Pritchett tells the...
Oil shale economics deals with the economic feasibility of oil shale extraction and processing. Although usually oil shale economics is understood as shale oil extraction economics, the wider approach evaluates usage of oil shale as a whole, including for the oil-shale-fired power generation and production of by-products during retorting or shale oil upgrading processes. The economic feasibility of oil shale is highly dependent on the price of conventional oil, and the assumption that the price will remain at a certain level for some time to come. As a developing fuel source the production and processing costs for oil shale are high due to the small nature of the projects and the specialist technology involved. A full-scale project to develop oil shale would require heavy investment and could potentially leave businesses vulnerable should the oil price drop and the cost of producing the oil exceed the price they could obtain for the oil. Due to the volatile prices and high capital costs few deposits can be exploited economically without subsidies. However, some countries, such as Estonia, Brazil, and China, operate oil-shale industries, while some others, including Australia, United...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 559 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Open-source software security is the measure of assurance or guarantee in the freedom from danger and risk inherent to an open-source software system.  Implementation debate   Benefits  Proprietary software forces the user to accept the level of security that the software vendor is willing to deliver and to accept the rate that patches and updates are released. It is assumed that any compiler that is used creates code that can be trusted, but it has been demonstrated by Ken Thompson that a compiler can be subverted using a compiler backdoor to create faulty executables that are unwittingly produced by a well-intentioned developer. With access to the source code for the compiler, the developer has at least the ability to discover if there is any mal-intention. Kerckhoffs' principle is based on the idea that an enemy can steal a secure military system and not be able to compromise the information. His ideas were the basis for many modern security practices, and followed that security through obscurity is a bad practice.  Drawbacks  Simply making source code available does not guarantee review. An example of this occurring is when Marcus Ranum, an expert on security system...
This is a list of open-source software to be used for high-order mathematical calculations. This software has played an important role in the field of mathematics. Open-source software in mathematics has become pivotal in education because of the high cost of textbooks.  Calculators  Calcpad Genius GeoGebra GNOME Calculator GraphCalc KAlgebra KCalc Maxima Qalculate! Windows Calculator WRPN Calculator xcalc  Computer algebra systems  A computer algebra system is a software product designed for manipulation of mathematical formulae. The principal objective of a computer algebra system is to systematize monotonous and sometimes problematic algebraic manipulation tasks. The primary difference between a computer algebra system and a traditional calculator is the ability to deal with equations symbolically rather than numerically. The precise uses and capabilities of these systems differ greatly from one system to another, yet their purpose remains the same: manipulation of symbolic equations. Computer algebra systems often include facilities for graphing equations and provide a programming language for the users' own procedures.  Axiom  Axiom is a general-purpose CAS...
The following is a list of notable software packages and applications licensed under an open-source license or in the public domain for use in the health care industry.  Public health and biosurveillance  Epi Info is public domain statistical software for epidemiology developed by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Spatiotemporal Epidemiological Modeler is a tool, originally developed at IBM Research, for modelings and visualizing the spread of infectious diseases. It is maintained by the Eclipse Foundation and available under terms of the Eclipse Public License.  Electronic records and medical practice management   Health system management  iHRIS is an integrated Human Resource Information System developed by IntraHealth International under USAID-funded CapacityPlus project and deployed in more than 20 countries in the world. iHRIS is distributed under the GNU GPL. DHIS is a district health management information system and data warehouse. DHIS2 is released under the BSD license. HRHIS is a human resource for health information system for management of human resources for health developed by University of Dar es Salaam college of information and communication technology...
These lists include projects which release their software under open-source licenses and are related to artificial intelligence projects. These include software libraries, frameworks, platforms, and tools used for machine learning, deep learning, natural language processing, computer vision, reinforcement learning, artificial general intelligence, and more.  Agentic AI  Auto-GPT - experimental open-source autonomous GPT-based agent OpenClaw - autonomous task-executing AI agent  Agentic AI frameworks  CrewAI - framework for building and orchestrating multi-agent AI systems LangChain - framework for building applications and agents powered by large language models Theia AI - framework for integrating AI capabilities and agents into integrated development environments .  AI-assisted software development  Codex CLI - AI coding agent and command-line interface developed by OpenAI. Cline - AI coding agent for IDEs and the command line. DeepSeek Coder - large language model designed for code generation and AI-assisted software development. goose - AI coding agent for the desktop and command line. Grok Build - SpaceAI's terminal-based AI coding agent. Hermes Agent - AI...
The Open Source Initiative is an American nonprofit organization that maintains The Open Source Definition , the predominant standard for open-source software. The organization was founded in February 1998 by Bruce Perens and Eric S. Raymond, part of a group inspired by the Netscape Communications Corporation publishing the source code for its flagship Netscape Communicator product. Later, in August 1998, the organization added a board of directors. For most of its existence, the OSI's activities have been focused on the definition and certifying software licenses as compliant with it. OSI originally had a closed organizational model, but began to switch towards a membership organization in the 2010s to raise more money and expand its activities.  History  As a campaign of sorts, open source was launched in 1998 by Christine Peterson, Jon maddog Hall, Larry Augustin, Eric S. Raymond, Bruce Perens, and others. The group adopted The Open Source Definition for open-source software, based on the Debian Free Software Guidelines. They also established the Open Source Initiative as a steward organization for the movement. However, they were unsuccessful in their...
Augustus of Saxe-Weissenfels 13 August 1614 in Dresden - 4 June 1680 in Halle, was a Duke of Saxe-Weissenfels-Querfurt of the House of Wettin and administrator of the Archbishopric of Magdeburg. He was the fourth son of John George I, Elector of Saxony, and his second wife, Magdalene Sibylle of Prussia.  Early life  On 23 January 1628, at the age of 13, August was appointed administrator of the Archbishopric of Magdeburg by its Chapter to replace the current holder of that title, Christian Wilhelm of Brandenburg. By that time, August had already served three years as coadjutor. Nevertheless, he could not assume his post: on 20 May 1631, after seven months of siege and plundering during the Sack of Magdeburg, the city was taken by the Imperial troops the Catholic competitor for the diocese, Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria, assumed the title of archbishop and administrator of Magdeburg. The Peace of Prague confirmed his rule over the city, but three years later, Swedish troops expelled the Habsburg army and restored August as administrator as of 19 October 1638. August finally took full control of Magdeburg on 31 December 1642 after a neutrality...
Tempopo is a 2025 video game developed by Australian independent developer Witch Beam and published by The Cult Games. It is a puzzle video game in which players must guide creatures named Tempopo to collect all flowers across a series of levels. The developers stated that the design of the game, inspired by earlier puzzle titles, including Lemmings, was intended to be relaxed and deconstruct the difficulty barriers intrinsic to puzzle titles. Upon release, Tempopo received generally positive reviews.  Gameplay  Playing as Hana, a young girl who acts as a conductor, players must command a group of blobs named Tempopo across 60 levels to navigate and solve block-based puzzles to collect flowers in each level. Tempopo move forward in sync with the beat of the game's music, and prior to starting each level, players must place tiles that guide the Tempopo by changing their direction, crossing a gap, or allowing them to jump, to collect all the flowers and complete the course.  Development  Tempopo was developed by Witch Beam, an Australian studio based in Brisbane who previously had created the puzzle title Unpacking. Director Sanatana Mishra stated that the game started as a...
Alternatipathes is a genus of corals belonging to the family Schizopathidae.  Etymology  The generic name, Alternatipathes, is derived from the Latin alternatus, meaning alternating, and the suffix pathes, which is commonly used for genera belonging to Antipatharia the name is in reference to the species' alternating arrangement of pinnules.  References 
Cecil Esdaile Winter was an English first-class cricketer, educator and Royal Air Force officer. The son of the cricketer William Winter, he was born at Deal in September 1879. He was educated at Uppingham School, where he played for the school cricket team, before going up to Trinity College, Cambridge. While studying at Cambridge, he played first-class cricket for Cambridge University Cricket Club in 1901 and 1902. Playing in the Cambridge side as a wicket-keeper, in this capacity Winter took seven catches and made eleven stumpings. As a batsman, he scored 53 runs at an average of 6.62, with a highest score of 18. After graduating from Cambridge, Winter began a career in education and prior the First World War he taught at a number of schools in the South East England. He served in the First World War and was commissioned in the closing stages of the war as a temporary second lieutenant in the nascent Royal Air Force. He returned to education following the war and was subsequently appointed headmaster at Northaw Place School. Winter died at Hove in July 1964. His brother, Gerald, was also a first-class cricketer, as was his uncle Arthur Winter....
Iran Weightlifting Federation Persian:      , IRIWF is the governing body for weightlifting in Iran.  History  IRIWF has been established in 1939. IRIWF is a member of the International Weightlifting Federation and also Asian Weightlifting Federation . The federation organizes the national weightlifting events, and Asian and World championships hosted by Iran.  The Committees  There are many committees in I.R.I.W.F. structure such as: Referees Committee Coaches Committee Talent Committee Education Committee Disciplinary Committee  International achievements   Olympics   World Championships   Asian Games   Notable weightlifters  Men Hossein Rezazadeh, twice Olympic four-times World and twice Asian Games Champion. Mohammad Nasiri, triple Olympic Medalist five-times World and three-times Asian Games Champion. Behdad Salimi, Olympic Champion, two-times World Champion and also triple Asian Games Champion. Kianoush Rostami, Olympic Champion and Olympic silver Medalist and also two-times World Champion. Hossein Tavakoli, Olympic Champion. Sohrab Moradi, Olympic Champion. World Champion...
Flotsam and Jetsam is an American thrash metal band that was formed in Phoenix, Arizona, in 1981. Before settling on its name in 1984, the band was known as Paradox, Dredlox and The Dogz. Their latest lineup includes vocalist Eric A.K Knutson, guitarists Michael Gilbert and Steve Conley, bassist Bill Bodily, and drummer Ken Mary. Flotsam and Jetsam went through several lineup changes over the years, leaving Knutson as the only constant member. They featured a then-unknown Jason Newsted as their bassist from 1981 to 1986, when he left the band shortly after the release of their debut album to join Metallica. Flotsam and Jetsam has released sixteen studio albums, the most recent being 2026's Rats in the Temple. The band emerged as part of the second wave of thrash metal during the mid-to-late 1980s, along with Sepultura, Testament and Death Angel, and achieved moderate success with the albums No Place for Disgrace , When the Storm Comes Down and Cuatro , with the first two entering the Billboard 200 chart and the latter cracking the top 30 on the Heatseekers chart.  History   1981-1986: Early days  The group was founded in 1981 under the name Paradox by...
Chebykovo is a rural locality in Urgushevsky Selsoviet, Karaidelsky District, Bashkortostan, Russia. The population was 97 as of 2010. There are 11 streets.  Geography  Chebykovo is located 44 km southwest of Karaidel by road. Arkaul is the nearest rural locality.  References 
Miljan Milivojev Serbian Cyrillic:   born 21 November 1988 is a Serbian football striker who plays for FK Rusanda Melenci.  References   External links  Miljan Milivojev at Soccerway Miljan Milivojev at Utakmica.rs Archived 26 June 2014 at the Wayback Machine
Root Supposed He Was Out of the Question... is the debut album by Australian rock band Root!, released on 7 December 2007. The album is a mixture of country, rock and comedy lyrics, as well as sections of spoken word. Although the album was initially planned to be released in August 2007, the band was unhappy with the mix and decided that a full remixing was necessary before the album was released.  Track listing  I Wish I Was Tex Perkins - 4:10 Spring Me Out of Caroline Springs, Caroline - 3:47 Shazza and Michelle - 4:38 Young Man's Blues Blues - 3:27 I Still Call Australia 'HO' - 3:04 My Cowboy Hat Is Bigger Than Texas - 3:28 The Ballad of the Poowong Magpies - 2:44 School Mum - 3:40 Pauline Hanson Says There's Christian Muslims Too - 4:26 Back to Mine - 6:48 Root 66 - 3:37  References   External links  Album and band information, from The ROOT! compendium
Zelenkov is a Russian and Ukrainian surname. Latvianized form: Zelenkovs. Notable people with the surname include: Aleksandr Zelenkov , Russian wrestler Ekaterina Zelenkova, Russian handball player Olga Zelenkova, Soviet swimmer  See also  All pages with titles containing Zelenkov All pages with titles containing Zelenkova
Donald L Robertson is an American record producer, mastering engineer, and entrepreneur from New Orleans, Louisiana. He is the founder of the independent music production company and label L Productionz. Robertson became known for his production work during the rise of Southern hip hop in the late 1990s and early 2000s and has collaborated with artists including Master P, Silkk the Shocker, Soulja Slim, Juvenile, Currensy, Mos Def, and Nas.  Early life  Donald L Robertson was raised in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was introduced to music by his parents, Donald Duck Robertson Sr. and Barbara Robertson, who exposed him and his sister, Traci Robertson, to genres including jazz, funk, and early hip hop music. Before beginning his production career, Robertson performed under the name Jazzy D and later joined the New Orleans rap group Strictly Business, where he adopted the stage name L. Robertson's sister later appeared as a performer under the name Baby Girl on releases associated with No Limit Records, including material connected to the album Goodfellas by the hip hop group 504 Boyz. The album was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of...
Aleksandr Fiodorovich Sevastianov, also written as Alexander Fyodorovich Sevastyanov, Russian:  l  1 July 1771, Ryazan Governorate - 5 December 1824, Saint Petersburg was a Russian naturalist, poet, translator, and academician of the Imperial Academy of Sciences . He was a member of many Russian and foreign scientific societies, including an honorary member of the Linnean Society of London .  Biography  He was born on 26 March 1770 or 1 July 1771 or 19 December 1771 in the village of Nesterovo to a noble family. On 31 December 1781, he entered service as a furier in the Leib Guard Preobrazhensky Regiment. In 1790, he graduated from the Academic Gymnasium and was promoted to army captain. For four years he served with Count F. A. Anhalt and in 1794 became a translator for Prince P. A. Zubov. Promoted to major on 30 June 1796, he resigned on 14 December of the same year to civil service, being given the rank of Collegiate assessor and appointed librarian to the Tsarevich Constantine Pavlovich. Interested in the natural sciences, he...
Jerry's Pond is an artificial pond created from a clay pit circa 1870 in North Cambridge, Massachusetts. Before being disused, it was known as Jerry's Pit.  History  In the early 1800s, before the clay pits were dug, the site was frequented by night herons and other wildlife. Zoologist Thomas Nuttall brought students to the area to view the birds, which numbered in the hundreds at the time. Great blue herons, last seen there in 1834, nested again on the land in 2018. Jerry's Pit was likely named after Jeremiah McCrehan, a North Cambridge resident and co-owner of the land until 1878 when it was lost due to foreclosure. The site was used as a clay pit by local brickyards for the natural clay found there. By 1870, all of the available clay had been extracted from the land and Jerry's Pit remained. The pit became an all-season feature of the North Cambridge neighborhood, with residents gathering there to swim in the summers and to ice skate in the winters. In the 1890s, in response to local residents harvesting ice from the pit to use in their homes, the city Board of Health reported that the water was entirely unfit for this purpose and the Cambridge Tribune reported that the site...
Patrick John Miguel van Aanholt Dutch pronunciation:  born 29 August 1990 is a Dutch professional footballer who plays as a left-back. He began his professional career at Chelsea, where he was used sparingly, spending time on loan at five different clubs. He joined fellow English side Sunderland for around 1.5 million in 2014 and was transferred to Crystal Palace in January 2017, for a fee rising to 14 million. He was released in June 2021, and later joined Turkish club Galatasaray on a free transfer. He was loaned to PSV in January 2023, and extended his loan deal until June 2024. He later joined fellow Dutch club Sparta Rotterdam on a permanent basis. A full international from 2013 to 2021, Van Aanholt represented the Netherlands at numerous youth levels before making his senior debut for the national team. He also represented the side at UEFA Euro 2020.  Early life  Van Aanholt was born in 's-Hertogenbosch to parents from Curaao. He is the cousin of fellow Dutch international Leroy Fer.  Club career   Chelsea  Van Aanholt joined Chelsea's youth ranks in 2007, making his professional debut while on loan at Coventry City on 9 August 2009 in a...
During the 1997-98 English football season, West Bromwich Albion F.C. competed in the Football League First Division. In the first few months of the 1997-98 season, West Brom established themselves in the top six. Harford then stunned Albion supporters by moving to QPR after less than a year in charge, making way for Denis Smith, who struggled to maintain the momentum created by Harford, and the Baggies could only finish 10th. Nigel Spink became the oldest goalkeeper to appear for the club when, at the age of 39 years and 19 days, he kept goal in a League Cup tie against Cambridge United on 27 August 1997, a record since broken by Dean Kiely at 39 years, 189 days.  Final league table   Results  West Bromwich Albion's score comes first  Legend   Football League First Division   FA Cup   League Cup   First-team squad  Squad at end of season Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  Notes   References 
Cypress is a village in Johnson County, Illinois, United States. The population was 217 at the 2020 census.  History  Cypress was established in the late 1890s as a stop along the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad, a Class I railroad. A post office which had been operating at Gray's Mill was moved to the new location, a former bank. The village's name is likely a reference to the cypress trees that grow in abundance in the Cache River basin. Cypress Grade School was built in 1917, and was damaged by a tornado on April 28, 2002. Around four years later, the current school was finished.  Geography  Cypress is located in southwestern Johnson County. The village is situated in the Cache River basin northwest of Karnak and southwest of Vienna. The Heron Pond - Little Black Slough Nature Preserve lies to the east of Cypress. Illinois Route 37 passes through the village. According to the 2021 census gazetteer files, Cypress has a total area of 0.76 square miles , of which 0.75 square miles is land and 0.00 square miles is water.  Demographics  As of the 2020 census there were 217 people, 86 households...
Malakai Hala-Ngatai is a New Zealand rugby union player, who plays for Manawatu. His preferred position is prop.  Early career  Hala-Ngatai was born in New Zealand but is of Tongan and Mori ancestry. He attended Manukura school where he played rugby and earned selection for the New Zealand Mori under-18 Ng Whatukura team. He then earned selection for the Hurricanes U20 side in 2022, before earning selection for the New Zealand U20 side in 2023. He plays his club rugby for Kia Toa.  Professional career  Hala-Ngatai has represented Manawatu in the National Provincial Championship since 2023, being named in the squad for the 2025 Bunnings NPC. In 2024, he joined the New England Free Jacks for the 2024 Major League Rugby season, helping them to win their second consecutive title, before returning for 2025 as they won their third consecutive title. He then signed for Moana Pasifika ahead of the 2026 Super Rugby Pacific season.  References   External links  Malakai Hala-Ngatai at ItsRugby.fr Malakai Hala-Ngatai at All.Rugby Malakai Hala-Ngatai at RugbyDatabase.co.nz
In biology, mimesis from ancient Greek  mmsis, imitation is a form of crypsis where living creatures mimic the form, colour and posture of their surroundings to avoid being noticed by predators depending on sight. One view is that mimesis, being a form of crypsis, differs from mimicry, but in English, mimesis is often counted as one of several forms of mimicry.  Zoomimesis  Zoomimesis is mimicry of different animals. Examples include various visitor species of ants , resembling the ants in whose nests they live.  Phytomimesis  Phytomimesis is mimicry of plants or parts of plants. Some geometer moths resemble thin twigs in appearance. Stick insects have a body shape resembling twigs or leaves . Notodontidae moths resemble the bark of deciduous trees. Some species in this family, such as the alder kitten and the sallow kitten moths, have cocoons resembling tree bark. Some potoo birds resemble broken branches.  Allomimesis  Allomimesis is mimicry of lifeless objects. Some small butterflies resemble bird droppings. Some species of fig-marigolds living in African deserts resemble stones and are thus known as living stones....
In microbiology and virology, the term variant or genetic variant is used to describe a subtype of a microorganism that is genetically distinct from a main strain, but not sufficiently different to be termed a distinct strain. A similar distinction is made in botany between different cultivated varieties of a species of plant, termed cultivars.  Viruses   SARS-CoV-2  It was said in 2013 that there is no universally accepted definition for the terms 'strain', 'variant', and 'isolate' in the virology community, and most virologists simply copy the usage of terms from others. The lack of precise definition continued in 2020 in the context of the Variant of Concern 20201201 version of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the website of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states, For the time being in the context of this variant, the are generally being used interchangeably by the scientific community.  References   External links  Variant - Biology Online
Bad Biology is a 2008 American black comedy horror film directed by Frank Henenlotter. Produced by rapper R.A. the Rugged Man, it stars Charlee Danielson and Anthony Sneed as sexually unfulfilled people who are drawn together because of their mutated genitalia. The film received generally positive reviews, and was released on DVD in the United Kingdom in 2009, and in the United States in 2010.  Plot  Jennifer, a photographer, has seven clitorises and can only be satisfied by very intense sex which results in the death of her partners. When she orgasms she gives birth to mutated creatures that she abandons. Jennifer's co-worker offers to get access to a mansion for a special photo shoot of a rap group. The mansion's owner, Batz, has a deformed, drug addicted penis. When Batz gets an erection after seeing one of the models at the photo shoot, Jennifer witnesses this and becomes obsessed with him, convinced that he is the only man who can satisfy her. She steals his keys and later breaks into his house where she witnesses him bring home a prostitute and films them fucking. Although Batz's sexual encounter with the prostitute does not last long, the prostitute continues to orgasm for...
Kline Tower is a skyscraper in New Haven, Connecticut. Formerly Kline Biology Tower, this building is currently the tallest on the Yale University campus and the sixth-tallest building in New Haven. It was the tallest building in the city from 1966 to 1969, and was designed by Philip Johnson, who also designed the nearby-and architecturally related-Kline Geology and Chemistry Laboratories. The building was previously home to the Yale Department of Biology. On September 22, 2023, the building was rededicated as Kline Tower, with Biology no longer in its name. It now houses the Yale departments of Astronomy, Mathematics, and Statistics and Data Science, as well as part of the department of Physics and the Yale Institute for Foundations of Data Science . The department of Biology, which formerly was in the building and was reflected in its previous name , is now housed nearby in Yale's new Science Building.  See also  List of tallest buildings in Connecticut List of tallest buildings in New Haven  References 
In biology, a kingdom is the second highest taxonomic rank, just below domain. Kingdoms are divided into smaller groups called phyla . Traditionally, textbooks from the United States and some of Canada have used a system of six kingdoms Animalia, Plantae, Fungi, Protista, Archaea or Archaebacteria, and Bacteria or Eubacteria, while textbooks in other parts of the world, such as Bangladesh, Brazil, Greece, India, Pakistan, Spain, and the United Kingdom have used five kingdoms Animalia, Plantae, Fungi, Protista, and Monera. Some recent classifications based on modern cladistics have explicitly abandoned the term kingdom, noting that some traditional kingdoms are not monophyletic, meaning that they do not consist of all the descendants of a common ancestor. The terms flora , fauna , and, in the 21st century, funga are also used for life present in a particular region or time.  Definition and associated terms  When Carl Linnaeus introduced the rank-based system of nomenclature into biology in 1735, the highest rank was given the name kingdom and was followed by four other main or principal ranks: class, order, genus and species...
Biology is a song performed by English-Irish all-female pop group Girls Aloud, taken from their third studio album Chemistry . The progressive pop song was written by Miranda Cooper, Brian Higgins and Higgins' production team enomania, and produced by Higgins and enomania. Composed of distinct sections, it avoids the verse-chorus form present in most contemporary pop music. Biology was released as a single in November 2005, ahead of the album's release. Following Long Hot Summer charting at 7 on the UK Singles Chart, Biology returned Girls Aloud to the top five and became their tenth top ten hit. The music video, consisting only of group shots, witnesses Girls Aloud seamlessly moving through various sequences while performing disjointed choreography. Biology was promoted through a number of live appearances and has since been performed on all of Girls Aloud's subsequent concert tours. The song, which includes a variety of styles, received widespread acclaim from contemporary music critics. Considered one of Girls Aloud's signature songs, The Guardian referred to Biology as the best pop single of the last decade.  Background and composition  Biology is composed...
UNC is a set of proteins first identified through a set of screening tests in Caenorhabditis elegans, looking for roundworms with movement problems. Worms with which were un-coordinated were analysed in order to identify the genetic defect. Such proteins include UNC-5, a receptor for UNC-6 which is one of the netrins. Netrins are a class of proteins involved in axon guidance. UNC-5 uses repulsion to direct axons while the other netrin receptor UNC-40 attracts axons to the source of netrin production.  Discovery of netrins  The term netrin was first used in a study done in 1990 in Caenorhabditis elegans and was called UNC-6. Studies performed on rodents in 1994 have determined that netrins are vital to guidance cues. The vertebrate orthologue of UNC-6, netrin-1 was determined to be a key guidance cue for axons moving toward the ventral midline in the rodent embryo spinal cord. Netrin-1 has been identified as a critical component of embryonic development with functions in axon guidance, cell migration, morphogenesis and angiogenesis. The most recent studies have found that there are 5 types of netrins expressed in animals. Ectotopic expression of UNC-5 can...
Bats are winged mammals, the only mammals capable of true and sustained flight. Bats are more agile in flight than most birds, using long, spread-out digits covered with a thin membrane or patagium. The smallest bat, and one of the smallest extant mammals, is Kitti's hog-nosed bat, which is 29-33 mm in length, 150 mm across the forearm and 2 g in mass. The largest bats are the flying foxes, with the giant golden-crowned flying fox reaching a weight of 1.5 kg and having a wingspan of 1.6 m . The second-largest order of mammals after rodents, bats account for about 20 of all classified mammal species worldwide, with at least 1,500 known species. These were traditionally divided into two suborders: the largely fruit-eating megabats and the microbats. But more recent evidence has supported dividing the order into Yinpterochiroptera and Yangochiroptera, with megabats as members of the former along with several species of microbats. Many bats are insectivores, and most of the rest are frugivores or nectarivores . A few species feed on animals other than insects for example...
Sodium ions are necessary in small amounts for some types of plants, but sodium as a nutrient is more generally needed in larger amounts by animals, due to their use of it for generation of nerve impulses and for maintenance of electrolyte balance and fluid balance. In animals, sodium ions are necessary for the aforementioned functions and for heart activity and certain metabolic functions. The health effects of salt reflect what happens when the body has too much or too little sodium. Characteristic concentrations of sodium in model organisms are: 10 mM in E. coli, 30 mM in budding yeast, 10 mM in mammalian cell and 100 mM in blood plasma. Additionally, sodium ions are essential to several cellular processes. They are responsible for the co-transport of glucose in the sodium glucose symport, are used to help maintain membrane polarity with the help of the sodium potassium pump, and are paired with water to thin the mucus of the airway lumen when the active Cystic Fibrosis Transport Receptor moves chloride ions into the airway.  Sodium distribution in species   Humans  The minimum physiological requirement for sodium is between 115 and 500 mg per day depending on sweating...
In biological taxonomy, class is a taxonomic rank, as well as a taxonomic unit in that rank. It is a group of related taxonomic orders. Other well-known ranks in descending order of size are domain, kingdom, phylum, order, family, genus, and species, with class ranking between phylum and order.  History  The class as a distinct rank of biological classification having its own distinctive name - and not just called a top-level genus - was first introduced by French botanist Joseph Pitton de Tournefort in the classification of plants that appeared in his Elments de botanique of 1694. Insofar as a general definition of a class is available, it has historically been conceived as embracing taxa that combine a distinct grade of organization-i.e. a 'level of complexity', measured in terms of how differentiated their organ systems are into distinct regions or sub-organs-with a distinct type of construction, which is to say a particular layout of organ systems. This said, the composition of each class is ultimately determined by the subjective judgment of taxonomists. In the first edition of his Systema Naturae , Carl Linnaeus...
The Biology of Luck is a 2013 American novel by Jacob M. Appel. It is a reimagining of James Joyce's Ulysses and is set in New York City.  Plot  The novel alternates between the adventures of New York tour guide Larry Bloom, who works a nine-to-five grind herding privileged tourists through the city, and chapters from a book manuscript he has written about the light in his listless life, Starshine Hart, a 29-year-old, job-jumping beauty who attracts the gaze and adoration of nearly every man in the Tri-state area.  Reception  Kate Duva of Word Riot wrote that Appel captures the essence of New York City and starts off well, but the large eccentric cast and lack of characterization for the main protagonists may leave some readers ambivalent. Will Donnelly of Green Mountains Review described the novel as strange genius. It won an Independent Publisher Book Award for U.S. North-East, Best Regional Fiction in 2014 and was short-listed for the Hoffer Society's Montaigne Medal.  References 
Tumor Biology is a bimonthly peer-reviewed open access medical journal covering clinical and experimental oncology. It was established in 1980 as Oncodevelopmental Biology and Medicine, obtaining its current name in 1984. It is owned by the International Society of Oncology and BioMarkers, of which it is the official journal. Originally published by Karger Publishers, it moved to Springer ScienceBusiness Media beginning in 2010. In December 2016, the journal moved again, this time to SAGE Publications. The editor-in-chief is Magdalena Chechlinska . According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 3.650.  Editors  Tumor Biology's founding editor-in-chief was William H. Fishman , who edited the journal along with Hidematsu Hirai from 1980 to 1983. In 1984, A. Munro Neville took over as editor-in-chief, and in 1995, he was replaced by Sabine von Kleist . In 1999, von Kleist retired, at which point she was replaced by Torgny Stigbrand , who was still...
Animal Biology is a peer-reviewed scientific journal in the field of zoology. It is the official journal of the Koninklijke Nederlandse Dierkundige Vereniging and published on behalf of the society by Brill Publishers. The journal was established in 1872 as the Archives Nerlandaises de Zoologie and renamed Netherlands Journal of Zoology in 1967. It has been known under its current name since 2004.  Abstracting and indexing  According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal's 2010 impact factor is 0.879 and it is indexed in BIOSIS, CABS, Current ContentsAgriculture, Biology and Environmental Sciences, FISHLIT, GeoAbstracts, Science Citation Index, and Scopus.  References   External links  Official website
Auxesis from the Greek word meaning increase grow refers to growth from an increase in cell size rather than an increase in the number of cells. Auxetic growth occurs in certain tissues, such as muscle, of the higher animals as well as in some organisms, especially eutelic ones, such as nematodes, tunicates, and rotifers. In plant physiology, an auxetic substance will tend to increase cell growth without any cell division. Auxins are auxetic plant hormones.  References   See also  Hypertrophy Merisis
Biology of the Cell is a peer-reviewed scientific journal in the field of cell biology, cell physiology, and molecular biology of animal and plant cells, microorganisms and protists. Topics covered include development, neurobiology, and immunology, as well as theoretical or biophysical modelling. The journal is currently published monthly by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Socit Franaise des Microscopies and the Socit de Biologie Cellulaire de France.  History  The journal first appeared in 1962 and was originally titled Journal de Microscopie . In 1975 the journal was retitled Journal de Microscopie et de Biologie Cellulaire . It was later retitled Biologie Cellulaire , becoming Biology of the Cell in 1981. Articles were originally published in either English or French, with summaries in both languages.  Modern journal  Content from 1988 is available online in PDF format, with papers from 2005 also being available in HTML, and from 2006 in an enhanced full-text format. The journal's 2014 impact factor was 3.506. Biology of the Cell is indexed by BIOBASE, BIOSIS, CAB International, Cambridge Scientific Abstracts...
Biology Open is an online-only peer-reviewed Open Access scientific journal published by The Company of Biologists. It was launched in 2011 and publishes research across the breadth of the biological and biomedical sciences. Biology Open is part of the Review Commons initiative, is integrated with bioRxiv for co-submission and is partnered with the Web of Science Reviewer Recognition Service .  Content  Biology Open publishes Research articles, Methods  Techniques papers, Meeting Reviews and Future Leader Reviews. The journal operates on a continuous publication model. The final version of record is immediately released online as soon as it is ready. All papers are published as Open Access articles under the CC-BY licence.  Abstracting and indexing  Biology Open is abstracted andor indexed by: Biological Abstracts CAB Abstracts Chemical Abstracts Thomson ISI PubMed Central PubMed Scopus It is a member of OASPA Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association and is indexed in the DOAJ . Biology Open is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment .  Management  The founding editor...
In biology, a substrate is the surface on which an organism lives. A substrate can include biotic or abiotic materials and animals. For example, encrusting algae that lives on a rock can be itself a substrate for an animal that lives on top of the algae. Inert substrates are used as growing support materials in the hydroponic cultivation of plants. In biology substrates are often activated by the nanoscopic process of substrate presentation.  In agriculture and horticulture  Cellulose substrate Expanded clay aggregate Rock wool Potting soil Soil  In animal biotechnology   Requirements for animal cell and tissue culture  Requirements for animal cell and tissue culture are the same as described for plant cell, tissue and organ culture In Vitro Culture Techniques: The Biotechnological Principles. Desirable requirements are air conditioning of a room, hot room with temperature recorder, microscope room for carrying out microscopic work where different types of microscopes should be installed, dark room, service room, sterilization room for sterilization of glassware and culture media,...
Experimental biology encompasses a set of approaches within the field of biology focused on conducting experiments to investigate and understand biological phenomena. This term contrasts with theoretical biology, which deals with mathematical modeling and abstractions of biological systems. The methodologies employed in experimental biology are diverse and multidisciplinary, including molecular, biochemical, biophysical, microscopic, and microbiological techniques. Experimental biology is a branch of biology grounded in the application of the scientific method to formulate and test hypotheses through the controlled manipulation of variables in reproducible experiments. Unlike observational or theoretical approaches, this field emphasizes establishing causal relationships between biological phenomena via rigorous experimental designs. The formulation of testable questions and systematic data collection are critical to ensuring experimental validity. Rigorous application of this method reduces uncertainty in biological research and yields quantifiable, reproducible results. Experimental design in biology requires the implementation of controls, replication, and randomization to minimize...
Principles of Biology is a college level biology electronic textbook published by Nature Publishing in 2011. The book is not a digitally reformatted version of a paper book. The book, the first in a projected series, is Nature Publishing's first foray into textbook publishing.  Format  Principles is composed of 200 modules, which can be customized by the instructor. The modules combine text, images, simulations, interactive exercises, self-tests, and formal tests. The book draws on the science journal Nature's archive of research papers. It was created by a group of more than 100 scientists, instructors, scientific illustrators, interaction designers, and faculty reviewers. It is available in formats for computers, tablets, and smartphones. No traditional paper edition is available. The book is purchased on a one-time payment subscription basis, with the purchase covering all future updates or supplements.  Reception  The book has been adopted for use at California State University. One favorable reviewer described the text as post-Gutenberg, referring to the Printing Revolution that occurred upon the development of the movable type printing press by Johannes Gutenberg ca...
Freshwater biology is the scientific biological study of freshwater ecosystems and is a branch of limnology. This field seeks to understand the relationships between living organisms in their physical environment. These physical environments may include rivers, lakes, streams, ponds, reservoirs, or wetlands. Knowledge from this discipline is also widely used in industrial processes to make use of biological processes involved with sewage treatment and water purification. Water presence and flow is an essential aspect to species distribution and influences when and where species interact in freshwater environments. In the UK, the Freshwater Biological Association based near Windermere in Cumbria was one of the early institutions to research the biology of freshwater and promote the concepts of trophism in lakes and demonstrated the process of migration from oligotrophic water through mesotrophic to marsh. Freshwater biology is also used to study the effects of climate change and increased human impact on both aquatic systems and wider ecosystems. Freshwater organisms, vertebrates especially, appear to be at a higher extinction risk from climate change than terrestrial or marine organisms...
In molecular biology and genetics, a blot is a method of transferring large biomolecules onto a carrier, such as a membrane composed of nitrocellulose, polyvinylidene fluoride or nylon. In many instances, this is done after a gel electrophoresis, transferring the molecules from the gel onto the blotting membrane, and other times adding the samples directly onto the membrane. After the blotting, the transferred molecules are then visualized by colorant staining , autoradiographic visualization of radiolabelled molecules , or specific labelling of some proteins or nucleic acids. The latter is done with antibodies or hybridization probes that bind only to some molecules of the blot and have an enzyme joined to them. After proper washing, this enzymatic activity is visualized by incubation with a proper reagent, rendering either a colored deposit on the blot or a chemiluminescent reaction which is registered by photographic film.  Southern blot  A Southern blot is a method routinely used in molecular biology for detection of a specific DNA sequence in...
The relationship between biology and sexual orientation is a subject of ongoing research. While scientists do not know the exact cause of sexual orientation, they theorize that it is caused by a complex interplay of genetic, hormonal, and environmental influences. However, evidence is weak for hypotheses that the postnatal social environment impacts sexual orientation, especially for males. Biological theories for explaining the causes of sexual orientation are favored by scientists. These factors, which may be related to the development of a sexual orientation, include genes, the early uterine environment , and brain structure. While the evolutionary explanation for heterosexuality in organisms that reproduce sexually is straightforwardly understood to be a psychological adaptation resulting from greater reproductive success, evolutionary explanations for homosexuality rely upon other mechanisms of evolution such as kin selection and inclusive fitness, or antagonistic pleiotropy that favors heterozygotes causing homosexuality among homozygotes as a by-product.  Scientific research and studies   Fetal development and hormones  The influence of hormones...
Biology was an indie rock band that was signed up to Vagrant Records. Biology was a creation of From Autumn to Ashes drummer Francis Mark , Every Time I Die bassist Josh Newton , producer Brian McTernan and Cornbread Compton of Engine Down . Making Moves, Biology's only album, was released September 27, 2005, via Vagrant Records. Biology announced a breakup on April 4, 2008.  Members  Francis Mark - lead vocals, rhythm guitar, piano Josh Newton - lead guitar, backing vocals Dan Duggins - drums Cornbread Compton - drums Brian McTernan - bass, rhythm guitar  Making Moves   Track listing  Programming the Populous Sophisdecay The Measure of My Worth Opinions Are Like Addictions Public Art Arbitrary Stimulation New English Born Again Virgins Employment When Future History Became Current History Damaged Goods  External links  Biology on Myspace Biology's Purevolume site Interview with Francis Mark - Aversion.com Interview with Francis Mark - Anti-Mag.com Making Moves at Amazon.com Biology at AbsolutePunk.com
Advertising in biology means the use of displays by organisms such as animals and plants to signal their presence for some evolutionary reason. Such signalling may be honest, used to attract other organisms, as when flowers use bright colours, patterns, and scent to attract pollinators such as bees or, again honestly, to warn off other organisms, as when distasteful animals use warning coloration to prevent attacks from potential predators. Such honest advertising benefits both the sender and the receiver. Other organisms may advertise dishonestly in Batesian mimicry, edible animals more or less accurately mimic distasteful animals to reduce their own risk of being attacked by predators.  In plants  Insect-pollinated flowers use bright colours, patterns, rewards of nectar and pollen, and scent to attract pollinators such as bees. Some also use drugs such as caffeine to encourage bees to return more often. Advertising is influenced by sexual selection: in dioecious plants like sallow, the male flowers are brighter yellow and have more scent than female flowers. Honey bees are more attracted by the brighter male flowers, but not by their scent. Many...
This bibliography of biology is a list of notable works, organized by subdiscipline, on the subject of biology. Biology is a natural science concerned with the study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, distribution, and taxonomy. Biology is a vast subject containing many subdivisions, topics, and disciplines. Subdisciplines of biology are recognized on the basis of the scale at which organisms are studied and the methods used to study them.  Anatomy  This section contains a list of works in anatomy, the study of the structure of living things. Ibn Sn . The Canon of Medicine. Vesalius, Andreas . De humani corporis fabrica libri septem On the fabric of the human body in seven books. A landmark publication in anatomy and medicine. It is the 400th birthyear of the beautiful book which graces the lectern in front of me, the most artistic book and one of the most illuminating in the history of medicine. As Osier remarked, 1543 is a starred year in the history of science. In it appeared the two great works which inaugurated modern science, Copernicus' Revolutions of the heavenly bodies, which gave us...
The biology of trust is the study of physiological mechanisms involved in mediating trust in social attachments. It has been studied in terms of genetics, endocrinology and neurobiology. Trust is the intentional choice to believe the input of strangers because one believes they know the truth and have one's best interest at heart. Trust is important in creating social attachments. Social bonds is a characteristic present in many mammals and other vertebrae species. However, there exists a paradox in the formation of social bonds in humans- while there are benefits, drawbacks, such as judgment, vulnerabilities to harmful physical and emotional hurt do exist. And overarching all of this is trust, which is marked by the intentional choice to rely on another individual for an underlying purpose, despite drawbacks- a factor in social bonds with biological implications.  Neural Mechanisms  Neuropeptides, specifically oxytocin and arginine-vasopressin , have been shown to be involved in physiological mechanisms of social behavior. Sex hormones, have also been correlated. The involvement of OT and AVP in trust and social attachment can be attributed the fact that both molecules...
The conservation status of a group of organisms indicates whether the group still exists and how likely it is to become extinct in the near future. Many factors are taken into account when assessing conservation status-not simply the number of individuals remaining, but the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates, and known threats. Various systems of conservation status are in use at international, multi-country, national and local levels, as well as for consumer use such as sustainable seafood advisory lists and certification. The two international systems are by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora .  International systems   IUCN Red List of Threatened Species  The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature is the best known worldwide conservation status listing and ranking system. Species are classified by the IUCN Red List into nine groups set through criteria such as rate of decline, population size, area of geographic distribution, and degree...
In taxonomy, binomial nomenclature , also called binary nomenclature, is a formal system of naming species of living things by giving each a name composed of two parts, both of which use Latin grammatical forms, although they can be based on words from other languages. Such a name is called a binomial name , a binomen, binominal name, or a scientific name more informally, it is also called a Latin name. In the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature , the system is also called binominal nomenclature, with an n before the al in binominal, which is not a typographic error, meaning two-name naming system. The first part of the name - the generic name - identifies the genus to which the species belongs, whereas the second part - the specific name or specific epithet - distinguishes the species within the genus. For example, modern humans belong to the genus Homo and within this genus to the species Homo sapiens. The formal introduction of this system of naming species is credited to Carl Linnaeus, effectively beginning with his work Species Plantarum in 1753. But as early as 1622, Gaspard Bauhin introduced...
Developmental Biology is a peer-reviewed scientific journal. It was established in 1959 and is the official journal of the Society for Developmental Biology. It publishes research on the mechanisms of development, differentiation, and growth in animals and plants at the molecular, cellular, and genetic levels. The journal is published twice a month by Elsevier.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted an indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 3.582. Looking at Scimago Journal  Country Rank data trends, citations per document declined substantially between 1999 and 2020, while the number of uncited documents increased over the same period. The number of citable documents per year published has decreased from a high of around 1,650 in 2008 to 661 in 2021.  References   External links  Official website
In biology, a cline is a measurable gradient in a single characteristic of a species across its geographical range. Clines usually have a genetic , or phenotypic character. They can show either smooth, continuous gradation in a character, or more abrupt changes in the trait from one geographic region to the next. A cline is a spatial gradient in a single specific trait, rather than in a collection of traits a single population can therefore have as many clines as it has traits, at least in principle. Additionally, as Julian Huxley recognised, these multiple independent clines may not act in concordance with each other. For example, it has been observed that in Australia, birds generally become smaller the further towards the north of the country they are found. In contrast, the intensity of their plumage colouration follows a different geographical trajectory, being most vibrant where humidity is highest and becoming less vibrant further into the arid centre of the country. Because of this, Huxley described the notion of clines as an auxiliary taxonomic principle, meaning that clinal variation...
Quantitative biology is an umbrella term encompassing the use of mathematical, statistical or computational techniques to study life and living organisms. The central theme and goal of quantitative biology is the creation of predictive models based on fundamental principles governing living systems. The subfields of biology that employ quantitative approaches include: Mathematical and theoretical biology Computational biology Bioinformatics Biostatistics Systems biology Population biology Synthetic biology Epidemiology  References 
Current Biology is a biweekly peer-reviewed scientific journal that covers all areas of biology, especially molecular biology, cell biology, genetics, neurobiology, ecology, and evolutionary biology. The journal includes research articles, various types of review articles, as well as an editorial magazine section. The journal was established in 1991 by the Current Science group, was acquired by Elsevier in 1998, and has since 2001 been part of Cell Press, a subdivision of Elsevier. According to Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 10.834. It was categorized as a high impact journal by the Superfund Research Program.  References   External links  Official website
Open Biology is a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal published by the Royal Society covering biology at the molecular and cellular levels. The first issue was published in September 2011 with an editorial about the launch of the journal. The editor-in-chief is Jonathon Pines who was appointed in 2020.  Contents and themes  The journal publishes research articles, reviews, invited perspectives, commentaries, comments, and invited replies.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Science Citation Index Expanded, BIOSIS Previews, Scopus, and Index MedicusMEDLINEPubMed. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2024 impact factor of 3.6.  References   External links  Official website
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 571 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The following is a list of events of the year 2026 in artificial intelligence, as well as predicted and scheduled events that have not yet occurred.  Events   January  7 January - Character.AI and Google agree to settle multiple lawsuits alleging the companies' chatbots contributed to suicides and mental health harms among minors, including a case brought by a Florida mother. 9 January - xAI limits use of image generation to paid users following the generation of sexually explicit deepfakes. 10 January - Indonesia blocks access to Grok due to nonconsensual sexualised deepfakes. 11 January - Malaysia blocks access to Grok due to nonconsensual sexualized deepfakes. 16 January - The Department of Information and Communications Technology blocks Grok in the Philippines due to nonconsensual sexualised deepfakes. 21 January - The Department of Information and Communications Technology lifts their ban on Grok. 23 January - Malaysia lifts their ban on Grok.  February  2 February - Indonesia lifts their ban on Grok. 3 February - Ofcom launches an investigation into . 9 February - OpenAI tests advertisements for ChatGPT in the United States. 13 February - GPT-4o is...
A broad range of public, academic, and political debates regarding the societal effects of artificial intelligence have intensified particularly in the late 2010s and 2020s, coinciding with an accelerated period of development known as the AI boom. While advocates emphasize the technology's potential to solve complex problems and enhance human quality of life, detractors highlight a wide array of dangers and challenges. These include concerns over ethics, plagiarism and theft, fraud, safety and alignment, environmental impacts, technological unemployment, and the spread of misinformation. It also covers severe future or theoretical challenges, such as the emergence of artificial superintelligence and existential risks. Social movements have arisen in response to both AI as a problematic information source, and the impact AI data centers have on a community's natural resources, both physical and intellectual. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, parental efforts to nurture the emotional and environmental intelligence of their children have led to mandates to limit screen time and to discourage the use of AI in classrooms.  2016   Microsoft Tay chatbot  On March 23, 2016...
Artificial intelligence has many applications in warfare, including in communications, intelligence, and munitions control. AI is not limited to new weapons such as drones or strategic means such as cyberwar, as it can affect all forms of military planning.  Uses  AI can enhance command and control, communications, sensors, integration and interoperability. AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions, target acquisition, coordination and deconfliction of distributed Joint Fires between networked combat vehicles, both human operated and autonomous. AI has been used in military operations in Iraq, Syria, Ukraine, Iran and Israel. An AI-powered Automatic Target Classifying System, which employs sensors and algorithms to automatically identify and classify targets on radar, was patented by the Indian Army in 2025. It swiftly and precisely compares real-time data-like pictures or radar signals-to a database of stored data. It can be used for disposable purposes, such as guiding missiles.  Autonomous armament  Military drones capable of autonomous action are in wide use.  Command and control... 
Distributed Artificial Intelligence also called Decentralized Artificial Intelligence is a melding of artificial intelligence with distributed computing. From artificial intelligence comes the theory and technology for constructing or analyzing an intelligent system. But where artificial intelligence uses psychology as a source of ideas, inspiration, and metaphor, DAI uses sociology, economics, and management science for inspiration. Where the focus of artificial intelligence is on the individual, the focus of DAI is on the group. Distributed computing provides the computational substrate on which this group focus can occur. Using techniques from artificial intelligence, communication theory, control theory, and interaction theory, it produces a cooperative solution to problems by a decentralized group of computational entities . DAI is closely related to and a predecessor of the field of multi-agent systems. They are distinguished generally by multi-agent systems being open, where the entities might arise from different interests and have individual goals, and distributed artificial-intelligence systems, where the entities have common goals. There are numerous...
OpenAI is an American artificial intelligence public benefit corporation headquartered in San Francisco. It develops proprietary generative AI models, particularly its generative pre-trained transformer series of large language models. Its release of ChatGPT in November 2022 has been credited with catalyzing the AI boom as of September 2026, ChatGPT is the fifth-most-visited website globally. OpenAI also releases the GPT Image models and Codex, an AI coding agent. In March 2026, OpenAI closed a funding round with a post-money valuation of US852 billion, making it one of the most valuable AI pure play companies in the world, rivalled only by Anthropic. OpenAI was founded in 2015 as a nonprofit, with Elon Musk and Sam Altman as co-chairs Musk resigned in 2018. A for-profit subsidiary was created in 2019, and a 2025 restructuring converted the subsidiary into OpenAI Group PBC, that is 26 owned by the nonprofit OpenAI Foundation. Microsoft has invested over 13 billion into OpenAI. OpenAI partners with the US government via the Stargate Project infrastructure venture, and with the Department of Defense, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and arms company Anduril Industries...
Creativity is the ability to generate novel and valuable ideas or works through the exercise of imagination. The products of creativity may be classified as either intangible or physical. Intangible products of creativity include ideas, scientific theories, literary works, musical compositions, and jokes. Physical products of creativity include inventions, dishes or meals, pieces of jewelry, costumes, and paintings. Creativity may also describe the ability to find new solutions to problems or new methods to accomplish a goal. Therefore, creativity enables people to solve problems in new ways. Most ancient cultures including ancient Greece, ancient China, and ancient India lacked the concept of creativity, seeing art as a form of discovery rather than a form of creation. In the Judeo-Christian-Islamic tradition, creativity is seen as the sole province of God, and human creativity was considered an expression of God's work the modern conception of creativity came about during the Renaissance, influenced by humanist ideas. Scholarly interest in creativity is found in several disciplines, primarily psychology, business studies, and cognitive science. It is also present in education and...
AI safety is an interdisciplinary field focused on preventing accidents, misuse, or other harmful consequences arising from artificial intelligence systems. It encompasses AI alignment which aims to ensure AI systems behave as intended, monitoring AI systems for risks, and enhancing their robustness. The field is particularly concerned with existential risks posed by advanced AI models. Beyond technical research, AI safety involves developing norms and policies that promote safety, including advocacy for regulations at different levels of government. The field gained significant popularity in 2023, with rapid progress in generative AI and public concerns voiced by researchers and CEOs about potential dangers. During the 2023 AI Safety Summit, the United States and the United Kingdom both established their own AI Safety Institute. However, researchers have expressed concern that AI safety measures are not keeping pace with the rapid development of AI capabilities.  Motivations  Scholars discuss current risks from critical systems failures, bias, and AI-enabled surveillance, as well as emerging risks like technological unemployment, digital manipulation, weaponization, AI-enabled...
In the field of artificial intelligence, sycophancy is a tendency of large language models and other AI assistants to tailor their responses to what they predict the user wants to hear rather than to what is accurate or warranted. The behavior takes several forms: an assistant may agree with a user's stated opinion even when the user is mistaken it may abandon a correct answer after a challenge such as are you sure? it may validate beliefs, decisions or self-presentation regardless of merit or it may praise the user, their work or their ideas in unwarranted terms. The word is borrowed from the ordinary English term for fawning flattery, and is used in AI alignment and AI safety research to describe a class of misalignment failures associated with training on human feedback. Researchers at Anthropic first documented the behavior systematically in 2022. They found that models fine-tuned with reinforcement learning from human feedback were more likely than untuned models to repeat back a user's preferred answer. A 2023 follow-up paper, Towards Understanding Sycophancy in Language Models, showed that five frontier assistants from OpenAI, Anthropic and Meta all exhibited...
Artificial intelligence detection software aims to determine whether some content was generated using artificial intelligence . This software is often unreliable.  Accuracy issues  Many AI detection tools have been shown to be unreliable in detecting AI-generated text. In a 2023 study conducted by Weber-Wulff et al., researchers evaluated 14 detection tools including Turnitin and GPTZero and found that all scored below 80 of accuracy and only 5 over 70. They also found that these tools tend to have a bias for classifying texts more as human than as AI, and that accuracy of these tools worsens upon paraphrasing.  False positives  In AI content detection, a false positive is when human-written work is incorrectly flagged as AI-written. Many AI detection platforms claim to have a minimal level of false positives, with Turnitin claiming a less than 1 false positive rate. However, later research by The Washington Post produced much higher rates of 50, though they used a smaller sample size. False positives in an academic setting frequently lead to accusations of academic misconduct, which can have serious consequences for a student's academic...
Some editors of Wikimedia projects use artificial intelligence and machine learning programs to edit existing articles or create new ones. Some applications of artificial intelligence, like using large language models to create new articles from scratch, have been more controversial than others for the Wikipedia community. In August 2025, English Wikipedia adopted a policy that allowed editors to nominate suspected LLM-generated articles for speedy deletion. This was followed by a March 2026 decision to prohibit the use of LLMs to generate or rewrite article content, with exceptions for copyediting one's own writing and machine translation from another language's Wikipedia. Wikipedia has also been a significant source of training data for some of the earliest artificial intelligence projects. This has received mixed reactions including concern about companies not citing Wikipedia when relying on it to answer a question as well as Wikipedia's increased costs from data scraping.  AI usage on Wikipedia   Earliest use of automated tools, machine learning and AI  Since 2002, bots have been allowed to run on Wikipedia but must be approved and supervised by a human. A bot...
Paul Jones is an American college football quarterback. He played for the Penn State Nittany Lions from 2010 to 2012. He transferred to Robert Morris University and played for the Robert Morris Colonials in 2013.  Early life  Jones grew up in McKees Rocks, PA and attended Sto-Rox School District where he played high school football under Jason Ruscitto.  Recruiting   College career  Jones graduated high school early and enrolled for the spring semester at Penn State in the spring of 2009. During his freshman season in 2010, Jones was a Redshirt and served as the quarterback on Penn State's scout team. While he showed promise and was expected to compete for the quarterback job in 2011, he had academic troubles and was forced to sit out due to ineligibility. He did regain eligibility for the 2012 season. Though he was initially entrenched in a 4-way QB competition with Matt McGloin, Rob Bolden and Shane McGregor, he was moved to tight end and appeared in his first game against Navy, where he caught one pass for seven yards. Jones left the Penn State football team midway through the 2012 season. He transferred from Penn State to Robert Morris University...
The Honeymoon Mine was Australia's second operating in-situ recovery uranium mine, beginning production in 2011. It is located in South Australia and is 80 kilometres northwest of Broken Hill, New South Wales. Honeymoon is a sandstone-hosted paleochannel deposit. Operations at Honeymoon were suspended in November 2013, following difficulties in reaching production targets, high costs and a falling uranium price. The project was placed in care and maintenance, then sold by Uranium One a 100 subsidiary of Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation to Boss Resources and Wattle Mining in September 2015 for a sum of A9 million. Boss Resources anticipates resuming production at the mine in 2019.  History  The Honeymoon deposit was discovered in 1972 by a joint venture between Mines Administration , Carpentaria Exploration and Teton Exploration Drilling Co . In 1981, Minad submitted a Final Environmental Impact Statement to the South Australian and Commonwealth governments, and in 1982 established a 3.5 million...
The 1974 United States Senate election in Florida was held on November 5, 1974. Incumbent Senator Edward Gurney, a Republican, declined to seek a second term after being indicted for taking bribes in return for his influence with the Federal Housing Administration. The primary for the Republican nomination pitted Eckerd drug store owner Jack Eckerd against Florida Public Service Commissioner Paula Hawkins. Eckerd won handily, receiving approximately 67.5 of the vote. The Democratic primary, however, was a crowded field with eleven candidates vying for the nomination. Because no candidate received a majority of the votes, U.S. Representative Bill Gunter and Secretary of State of Florida Richard Stone advanced to a run-off election. Stone won by a small margin of 1.68. Thus, Eckerd and Stone faced off in the general election. John Grady, a family physician and member of George Wallace's American Independent Party, performed very well for a third-party candidate. On election day, Stone received 43.38 of the vote, Eckerd garnered 40.91 of the vote, and Grady acquired 15.7 of the vote. Stone served only one term in the Senate and would be defeated by Gunter in the Democratic primary...
Henry C. King was a British astronomer and writer. He was born in London, but the family later moved to Marlow, Buckinghamshire where Henry attended the Sir William Borlase School. For his thirteenth birthday, his father gave him a copy of The Story of The Heavens by Robert S Ball. Another move took the family to Slough in the late 1930s. Here Henry contacted Lady Constance Lubbock, William Herschel's grand-daughter, and was able to access the Herschel Library. He obtained a B.Sc. in astronomy and mathematics by correspondence, from the University of London, and subsequently, an MSc and Ph.D on the history and philosophy of science. During World War II he was Inspector of Aeronautical Instruments for the Ministry of Aircraft Production at Ruislip. In the 1950s he was Senior Lecturer in Ophthalmic Optics at Northampton College of Advanced Technology, . In 1956, he became the first Scientific Director of the London Planetarium. Ten years later, he became Director of the McLaughlin Planetarium, Toronto. He was President of the British Astronomical Association from 1958-60.  Family  He married Mary Wilson in 1939. They had...
Kenneth Eugene Weaver was an American professional wrestler and wrestling commentator in the National Wrestling Alliance, better known by his ring name, Johnny Weaver.  Career   1960s  Weaver's career spanned four decades in many different territories in the NWA. He held championships across the southeast United States, the first of which was the Mid-Atlantic version of the NWA Southern Tag Team Championship, which he won with Cowboy Bob Ellis on December 2, 1963. His best known run was with partner George Becker in the Mid-Atlantic in the 1960s. The two held the NWA Mid-Atlantic Southern Tag Team Championship five times together, and they were household names in the territory for a period of nearly eight years. The team had memorable feuds with Rip Hawk and Swede Hanson, Lars Anderson and Gene Anderson, Aldo Bogni and Bronko Lubich with manager Colonel Homer O'Dell, the Infernos with manager J. C. Dykes, and many others. Weaver's next major success came in Championship Wrestling from Florida, where he teamed with Becker to win the Florida version of the NWA Southern Tag Team Championship in February 1967. He...
Sawyer Island is an island 2 nautical miles long lying north of Pickwick Island, Pitt Islands, in the Biscoe Islands. Shown on an Argentine government chart of 1957. Named by the United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee in 1959 after Robert Sawyer, one of the central characters in Charles Dickens' Pickwick Papers.  See also  List of Antarctic and sub-Antarctic islands This article incorporates public domain material from Sawyer Island. Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.
Nikolaos Mitrou Greek:   born 10 July 1984 is a Greek former professional footballer who played as a midfielder.  Career  Born in Chalcis, Mitrou began his playing career by signing with Panionios F.C. in August 2002. He made 32 appearances in the Super League Greece for the club. He also played for Niki Volos, Digenis Akritas Morphou, Ethnikos Asteras, Lamia, Aias Salamina F.C., Kastoria, Pierikos, Enosi Mideas, Poros and FC Zenit slav.  References   External links  Nikos Mitrou at Soccerway.com Nikos Mitrou at FBref.com Nikos Mitrou at Kicker Nikos Mitrou at Olympedia
Sarcoplasmicendoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase 3 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ATP2A3 gene. This gene encodes one of the SERCA Ca2-ATPases, which are intracellular pumps located in the sarcoplasmic or endoplasmic reticula of cells. SERCA3 expression was originally described as non-muscular, but was recently observed in cardiomyocyte. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of ATP coupled with the translocation of calcium from the cytosol to the sarcoplasmic reticulum lumen, and is involved in calcium sequestration associated with muscular excitation and contraction. Alternative splicing results in 6 transcript variants encoding different isoforms named SERCA3a to SERCA3f.  Cancer  ATP2A3 gene has been observed progressively downregulated in Human papillomavirus-positive neoplastic keratinocytes derived from uterine cervical preneoplastic lesions at different levels of malignancy. For this reason, ATP2A3 is likely to be associated with tumorigenesis and may be a potential prognostic marker for uterine cervical preneoplastic lesions progression.  References   External links  Human ATP2A3 genome location and ATP2A3 gene details page in the UCSC Genome Browser...
The Mewar Bhil Corps is a state armed police force of the Rajasthan Police. The Corps was originally raised by the British Indian government as a military unit along similar lines as units such as the Merwara Battalion and Malwa Bhil Corps. The Corps operated as a semi-military formation until 1938 since then it has been maintained as a para-military force. As of 2015, the sanctioned strength of the Corps was 773 personnel. It is organized along with the battalions of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary under an Additional Director General of Police for Armed Battalions. The sole battalion of the MBC is deployed in Udaipur range.  History  The Mewar Bhil Corps was established in 1841 under the command of Captain W. Hunter, with its headquarters at Kherwara. The reasons for raising the Corps were two-fold: to provide employment to members of the Bhil tribe, thus ensuring their good behavior and to police the difficult hill country of Mewar.  Organization  As of 1891, the Corps had five officers - Commandant, Assistant Commandant, Adjutant, Wing Officer, and Medical Officer of which the 2nd in command was stationed in Kotra, the others in Kherwara. The Commandant was...
Karine Kazinian  8 January 1955 - 6 December 2012 was an Armenian diplomat and politician. She served as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia, was Ambassador of Armenia to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Ambassador of Armenia to Germany and was Chief Negotiator of the EU-Armenia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.  Early life and education  Kazinian was born in Yerevan, Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic. Kazinian studied at the German Language Department of Yerevan State University and graduated in 1977. She was fluent in Russian, German, Romanian, English, and Portuguese. After graduating, she worked in the Soviet Union embassies in Mozambique, Portugal, and Romania. From 1997 to 1999, she was Armenia's temporary charg d'affaires in Romania. In 2009, Kazinian was appointed Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia and also served as the Chief Negotiator of the EU-Armenia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. On 8 September 2011 Kazinian was appointed Ambassador of Armenia to the United Kingdom. Kazinian won the Armenian Medal of Mkhitar Gosh and Romanian Grand Cross...
Austria competed at the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States. The team ranked eighteenth overall and attained 5 medals. 19 competitors, 17 men and 2 women, took part in 14 events in 7 sports.  Medalists   Athletics   Diving  Men Women  Fencing  One fencer, Ellen Mller-Preis, represented Austria at the 1932 Summer Olympics. She won gold in the women's foil event. Women's foil Ellen Mller-Preis  Sailing  Open  Weightlifting   Wrestling   Art competitions   References   External links  Official Olympic Reports International Olympic Committee results database
Tito Muoz is a Spanish poet and lyricist. He was born in Barcelona. He has published some nine volumes of poetry, and his work has been praised by the likes of Luis Garca Montero, Felipe Bentez Reyes and Luis Alberto de Cuenca. As a lyricist, he has composed songs for Joan Manuel Serrat and Javier Ruibal among others.  References 
Bhaskar Bhattacharya is an Indian former judge who served as the 57th Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court from 2012 to 2014.  Early life and legal career  Bhattacharya passed B.Sc. and LL.B. from the Jogesh Chandra Chaudhuri Law College, University of Calcutta. He was enrolled as an advocate on 14 March 1975 and started practice in civil matters in the Calcutta High Court. He became a Senior Advocate in 1994. Bhattacharya was appointed a permanent judge of the Calcutta High Court on 17 July 1997. He was transferred to the Gujarat High Court on 8 November 2011 and became its Chief Justice on 18 July 2012. He retired on 28 September 2014.  References 
Megas Alexandros Kallithea Football Club was a Greek football club, based in Kastoria , Kastoria, Greece.  History  The club was founded in 1984 and named after Megas Alexandros. It played in Gamma Ethniki, Greek football's third tier for 3 seasons in recent years. In 2021 after 37 years of operation, Megas Alexandros was absorbed by Kastoria 1980 F.C. in order for the latter to participate in a national division.  Honours   Domestic  Kastoria FCA champion: 3 2015-16, 2017-18, 2019-20 Kastoria FCA Cup Winners: 2 2014-15, 2015-16  Notable players  Konstantinos Kormaris  References 
Gerald Leslie Gitner is an American former aviation executive who occupied high-level positions at Trans World Airlines , Pan American World Airways , People Express Airlines, and other major airlines. He has also served as chairman and director for several aviation-related and non-aviation-related companies. Gitner is best known for his time as the CEO of TWA in the late '90s during which time he increased fleet numbers, renewed the fleet, improved the company's debt structure, won two J.D. Power and Associates awards, and ultimately facilitated the 2001 sale of the company to American Airlines.  Education  Born In Boston, he attended Boston Latin School, then attended Boston University College of Arts and Sciences where he graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in 1966. He then attended the University of Rochester where he received a Master of Business Administration in 1968. Among other bequests, the Gerald and Deanne Gitner Family Innovation in Teaching with Technology Award is now presented annually by Boston University, where Gitner was a trustee and continues his association, the Gitner Prize for Teaching at the University of...
Paolo Lorenzi and Matteo Viola were the defending champions but chose not to participate. James Cerretani and Philipp Oswald won the title after defeating Roberto Carballs Baena and Christian Garin 6-3, 6-2 in the final.  Seeds   Draw  Key  References  Main Draw
Dhootha is an Indian Telugu-language horror mystery thriller television series created and directed by Vikram Kumar. It stars Naga Chaitanya, Parvathy Thiruvothu, Prachi Desai, Gnaneswari Kandregula, Anish Kuruvilla, Tharun Bhascker, Rohini, Tanikella Bharani, Priya Bhavani Shankar, and Pasupathy in primary roles. The series premiered on 1 December 2023 on Amazon Prime Video. In June 2024, it was announced that the series is renewed for a new season.  Cast   Episodes   Season 1   References   External links  Dhootha at IMDb
This is a list of ancient Roman aqueducts in the city of Rome.  Introduction  In order to meet the water needs of its population, the city of Rome was eventually supplied with 11 aqueducts by 226 AD, which were some of the city's greatest engineering achievements. Estimates of total water supplied in a day by all aqueducts vary from 520,000 m3 to 1,127,220 m3 , mostly sourced from the Aniene river and the Apennine Mountains, serving a million citizens. Most of our information about Roman aqueducts come from statistics compiled in the late 1st century AD by Sextus Julius Frontinus, the Curator Aquarum. These estimates may not have considered water loss. Modern engineers have questioned the validity of these figures and measured Anio Novus limestone deposits to estimate the average wetted perimeter and surface roughness corresponding to only 23 of the flow figure given below.  See also  Aqueduct Aqueduct Parco degli Acquedotti List of aqueducts List of aqueducts in the Roman Empire List of Roman aqueducts by date  References   External links  Media related to Ancient Roman aqueducts in Rome at Wikimedia...
The gens Mamilia was a plebeian family at ancient Rome during the period of the Republic. The gens was originally one of the most distinguished families of Tusculum, and indeed in the whole of Latium. It is first mentioned in the time of the Tarquins and it was to a member of this family, Octavius Mamilius, that Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, the seventh and last king of Rome, betrothed his daughter. The gens obtained Roman citizenship in the 5th century BC, and some of its members must subsequently have settled at Rome, where Lucius Mamilius Vitulus became the first of the family to hold the consulship in 265 BC, the year before the First Punic War.  Origin  The Mamilii traced their nomen and origin to the mythical Mamilia, the daughter of Telegonus, who was regarded as the legendary founder of Tusculum and the son of Ulysses and the goddess Circe. This origin was referred to on a coin of the gens, the obverse of which depicts the head of Mercury or Hermes, the ancestor of Ulysses, and the reverse Ulysses himself, clad in the humble disguise he assumed to avoid being recognized by the suitors of Penelope.  Praenomina  The earliest of the Mamilii to occur in history bore the...
The Etruscans created a civilization in Etruria, in ancient Italy, with a common language and culture, and formed a federation of city-states. After adjacent lands had been conquered, its territory covered, at its greatest extent, roughly what is now Tuscany, western Umbria and northern Lazio, as well as what are now the Po Valley, Emilia-Romagna, south-eastern Lombardy, southern Veneto and western Campania. A large body of literature has flourished on the origins of the Etruscans, and the consensus among modern scholars is that the Etruscans were an indigenous population. The earliest evidence of a culture that is identifiably Etruscan dates from about 900 BC. This is the period of the Iron Age Villanovan culture, considered to be the earliest phase of Etruscan civilization, which itself developed from the previous late Bronze Age Proto-Villanovan culture in the same region, part of the central European Urnfield culture system. The territorial extent of Etruscan civilization reached its maximum around 500 BC, shortly after the Roman Kingdom became the Roman Republic. Beginning in the late 4th century BC, it succumbed to the expanding Rome during the Roman-Etruscan Wars...
The Temple of Vesta, or the aedes Latin: Aedes Vestae Italian: Tempio di Vesta, was an ancient edifice in Rome, Italy. It is located in the Roman Forum near the Regia and the House of the Vestal Virgins. The Temple of Vesta housed Vesta's holy fire, which was a symbol of Rome's safety and prosperity. The temple has a circular footprint, making it a tholos. Since the worship of Vesta began in private homes, the architecture seems to pay homage to the architecture of early Roman homes. The temple's current, ruinous form employs elements of Greek architecture with Corinthian columns and marble. The sacred hearth was housed in a central cella. The surviving structure indicates that there were twenty Corinthian columns built on a podium fifteen meters in diameter. The roof probably had a vent at the apex to allow smoke to escape.  History   Origins  The first Temple of Vesta was built by Numa Pompilius, the second king of the Roman Kingdom. He also built the original Regia and the House of the Vestal Virgins, and founded the priestly order of Vestal Virgins. At first there were just two Vestals, but by the end of the Republic, there were six. Vesta was the goddess...
The History of Rome is a multi-volume history of ancient Rome written by Theodor Mommsen . Originally published by Reimer  Hirzel, Leipzig, as three volumes during 1854-1856, the work dealt with the Roman Republic. A subsequent book was issued which concerned the provinces of the Roman Empire. In 1992, a further book on the Empire, reconstructed from lecture notes, was published. The initial three volumes won widespread acclaim upon publication indeed, The Roman History made Mommsen famous in a day. Still read and qualifiedly cited, it is the prolific Mommsen's most well-known work. The work was specifically cited when Mommsen was awarded the Nobel Prize.  Genesis  Writing the History followed Mommsen's earlier achievements in the study of ancient Rome. He had not himself designed to write a history, but the opportunity presented itself in 1850 while at the University of Leipzig where Mommsen was a thirty-two-year-old special Professor of Law. Invited to give a public lecture while at Leipzig, I delivered an address on the Gracchi. Reimer and Hirzel, the publishers, were present, and two days later they asked me to write a Roman History...
Symbols of ancient Roman monetary and weight units are brief designations of such ancient Roman coins as the denarius, quinarius, sestertius, as, as well as some other monetary, accounting, and weight units of Ancient Rome. They appeared during the late Roman Republic both on the coins themselves and in written documents some were used until the 20th century, for example, the symbol of the scruple in the apothecaries' system of weights. In most cases, they consist of: Roman numerals, crossed out or uncrossed with a horizontal stroke  Greek letter-numerals  counting dots or strokes , in some cases with the addition of the letter S-abbreviation of the word semis  abbreviations of the names of the corresponding accounting and weight units in Latin, ancient Greek, or ancient Egyptian languages. In the case of monetary units, the symbols are, as a rule, no more than nominals, denoting the value of the corresponding unit in asses, nummia, etc. In some cases, one can speak of the emergence of an independent symbol of the monetary unit itself - for example, the...
The term veteran in ancient Rome designated a soldier at the end of his service, in whatever corps he had served praetorian or urban cohorts, legions, auxiliary army, navy. Length of service is a concept that evolves with the same history of organization of Rome's army and within it the figure of the miles. The veteran, initially, is a volunteer soldier he arms himself at his own expense and remains in service for the duration of the military campaign for which he was recruited. Later with the organization of the army and the creation of a real social and legal subject, the professional soldier, the duration of service would also be fixed according to the military corps to which he belonged.  History  It is in 107 BC that a significant turning point happened: Gaius Marius carries out an extraordinary enlistment without regard to the census requirements of the recruits, enlisting proletarian volunteers. Thus a new, more direct relationship is established between soldier and general and, correspondingly, with the granting of rewards for veterans on discharge an earlier occurrence took place with Scipio Africanus, the definition of a phenomenology with political implications...
Rome is regarded as one of the world's most beautiful ancient cities, and contains vast amounts of priceless works of art, palaces, museums, parks, churches, gardens, basilicas, temples, villas, piazzas, theatres, and other venues in general. As one of the world's most important and visited cities, there are numerous popular tourist attractions. In 2005, the city received 19.5 million global visitors, up of 22.1 from 2001. The 5 most visited places in Rome are: 1 Pantheon , 2 The Colosseum , 3 Trevi Fountain , 4 Sistine Chapel and 5 The Roman Forum . The study was conducted by the Ministero dei Beni e della Attivita' Culturali e del Turismo for the year 2017. Rome is the city with the most monuments in the world.  Religious edifices   Secular edifices, parks, public spaces and monuments   Classical and ancient Roman sites   See also  List of fountains in Rome List of tourist attractions worldwide  References   Sources  Cutrufo, Mauro . La Quarta Capitale. Rome. ISBN 978-88-492-1950-0.cite book: CS1...
Naming conventions for women in ancient Rome differed from nomenclature for men, and practice changed dramatically from the Early Republic to the High Empire and then into Late Antiquity. Females were identified officially by the feminine of the family name , which might be further differentiated by the genitive form of the father's cognomen, or for a married woman her husband's. Numerical adjectives might distinguish among sisters, such as Tertia, the Third compare Generational titles in English names. By the late Republic, women also often adopted the feminine of their father's cognomen. A woman kept her own family name after she married, though she might be identified in relation to her husband: the name Clodia Metelli, Clodia of Metellus, preserves the birth name Clodia and adds her husband's name to specify which Clodia. Children usually took the father's name. In the Imperial period, however, children might sometimes make their mother's family name part of theirs, or even adopt it instead.  History   Early to Middle Republic  Women in the early to mid-Republic were usually known by their family name . A woman...
Marcus Tullius Cicero  SISS-r-oh, Classical Latin:  3 January 106 BC - 7 December 43 BC was a Roman statesman, lawyer, scholar, philosopher, orator, and writer who tried to uphold optimate principles during the political crises of the Roman Republic that led to the establishment of the Roman Empire. The extensive writings of Cicero include treatises on rhetoric, philosophy, and politics. He is considered one of Rome's greatest orators and prose stylists and the innovator of what became known as Ciceronian rhetoric. Cicero was educated in Rome and in Greece. He came from a wealthy municipal family of the Roman equestrian order, and served as consul in 63 BC. Cicero greatly influenced both ancient and modern reception of the Latin language. A substantial percentage of his work has survived, and he was admired by ancient and modern authors alike. He adapted the arguments of the chief schools of Hellenistic philosophy in Latin and coined a large portion of Latin philosophical vocabulary via lexical innovation e.g. neologisms such as evidentia, generator, humanitas, infinitio, qualitas, and quantitas, almost 150 of which were the result of...
Rome: Total War is a strategy video game developed by The Creative Assembly and originally published by Activision its publishing rights have since passed to Sega. The game was released for Microsoft Windows in 2004. The Mac OS  version was released on February 5, 2010, by Feral Interactive, who also released the iPad version on November 10, 2016, the iPhone version on August 23, 2018, and the Android version on December 19, 2018. The game is the third title in The Creative Assembly's Total War series, following Shogun: Total War, and Medieval: Total War. The game's main campaign takes place from 270 BC to 14 AD, showcasing the rise and final centuries of the Republican period and the early decades of the imperial period of Ancient Rome. Gameplay is split between real-time tactical battles and a turn-based strategic campaign. Within the campaign, players manage the economy, government, diplomacy, and military of their faction and attempt to accomplish a series of objectives on a map that encompasses most of Europe, North Africa, and the Near East. On the battlefield, the player controls groups of soldiers and uses them to engage in combat with enemy forces. Upon its release, Rome...
This is a list of ancient great powers. A great power is a nation or state that through economic, political or military strength is able to exert power and influence over not only its own region, but beyond to others. The first recognized great powers came about in Europe after the Napoleonic era when the formalization of the division between small powers and great powers came with the signing of the Treaty of Chaumont in 1814.  Ancient Africa and Western Asia   Sumer and Akkad  Sumer is among the earliest known civilizations of the Ancient Near East, located in southern Mesopotamia in what is modern-day Iraq in the 4th millennium BC until the rise of Babylonia in the late 3rd millennium BC. The term Sumerian applies to all speakers of the Sumerian language, and the city-states in the region. Multiple dynasties and empires ruled over the Sumerian city-states, the most influential one being the Akkadian Empire.  Hurrians  The Hurrians were a people who inhabited the Ancient Near East during the Bronze Age. The Hurrian kingdoms were in Northern Mesopotamia and its people lived in the adjacent regions during the Bronze Age. The largest and most influential Hurrian state...
Ryse: Son of Rome is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Crytek and published by Microsoft Studios. Set in an alternate version of Ancient Rome, Ryse follows the life of the Roman centurion Marius Titus as he becomes one of the leaders in the Roman Legion. Gameplay revolves around Marius using his sword to strike enemies and shield to deflect attacks. Execution sequences are featured in the game, which are quick-time events that serve as an extension to combat. The game features a cooperative multiplayer mode, which tasks players to fight against waves of enemies in maps that are changing dynamically. The game's development began in 2006. Originally it was set to be a first-person Kinect-only title for the box 360. However, the developer gradually redesigned the game to become a third-person hack and slash game, with Kinect serving a diminished role. The development of the game was originally handled by Crytek Budapest, but was later transferred to Crytek's headquarters in Frankfurt, Germany. The game's combat emphasizes on flow, a term referring to a player's ability to move on to fight against another enemy upon defeating an enemy with few limitations in between. The team...
The Slave Market is an 1866 painting by the French artist Jean-Lon Grme. It depicts a West Asian or North African setting where a man inspects the teeth of a nude, female Abyssinian slave in the context of the Barbary slave trade. The painting was bought by Adolphe Goupil on 23 August 1866 and exhibited at the Salon of 1867 in Paris. It was bought and sold several times until Robert Sterling Clark bought it in 1930. Since 1955 it is part of the Clark Art Institute's collection. Along with Grme's The Snake Charmer , The Slave Market has become an iconic example of 19th-century orientalist art.  Reception  Maxime Du Camp, who had travelled extensively in the Near East, reviewed the painting from the 1867 Salon. He located the motif to Cairo's slave market and described the painting as a scene done on the spot. Du Camp wrote: It is one of these women, an Abyssinian, that M. Grme has taken as the principal figure of his composition. She is nude and being displayed by the djellab, who has the fine head of a brigand accustomed to every sort of abduction and violence the idea of the eternal soul must not...
In 7 BC, Augustus divided the city of Rome into 14 administrative regions . These replaced the four regiones-or quarters-traditionally attributed to Servius Tullius, sixth king of Rome. They were further divided into official neighborhoods . Originally designated by number, the regions acquired nicknames from major landmarks or topographical features within them. After the reign of Constantine the Great, the imperial city of Constantinople was also divided into fourteen regiones, on the Roman example: the 14 regions of Constantinople.  History of Rome's regions  Evidence of regions in Rome before Augustus is limited. Writing in the mid-40s BC, Marcus Terentius Varro describes four 'partes urbis', referring to them individually as a 'regio' with both names and numbers: I Suburana, II Esquilina, III Collina and IV Palatina. Varro also provides evidence for vici in Republican Rome, deriving the word vicus from via and which are analogous to our modern 'neighbourhoods'. By the middle Republic each vicus had a local official known as a vicomagister. By the time of Augustus, local shrines in the vici had become neglected and from around 12 BC he began...
The Roman-Etruscan Wars, also known as the Etruscan Wars or the Etruscan-Roman Wars, were a series of wars fought between ancient Rome in both the regal and the republican periods and the Etruscans. Information about many of the wars is limited, particularly those in the early parts of Rome's history, and in large part is known from ancient texts alone. The conquest of Etruria was completed in 265-264 BC.  Periodisation  Based on the traditional narrative of the overthrow of the Roman monarchy in 509 BC, in which the Romans ousted the Etruscan Tarquinii dynasty and established the Roman Republic, some historians put the start of the Roman-Etruscan Wars in c. 509 BC. Other historians such as Brice emphasise that little about the Etruscan Wars survives in the ancient sources: though the general course of the war could be discerned, it is impossible to reconstruct a continuous narrative. He argued that the wars occurred so early in Roman history that extensive elements of the narratives are shrouded in mythology and should be heavily discounted. Livy is our best surviving source for this early period, but he wrote four centuries after the events and drew on sources that...
The architecture of Rome over the centuries has greatly developed from Ancient Roman architecture to Italian modern and contemporary architecture. Rome was once the world's main epicentres of Classical architecture, developing new forms such as the arch, the dome and the vault. The Romanesque style in the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries was also widely used in Roman architecture, and later the city became one of the main centres of Renaissance and Baroque architecture. Rome's cityscape is also widely Neoclassical and Fascist in style.  Ancient Rome  During the Roman Republic, most Roman buildings were made of concrete and bricks, but ever since about 100 BC and the Roman Empire, marble and gold were more widely used as decoration themes in the architecture of Rome, especially in temples, palaces, fora and public buildings in general. Most buildings, just like in Classical Athens, had caryatids and atlantes supporting balconies or structures, mainly representing standing women or muscular men. The caryatids found in ancient Roman architecture were mainly copies of the Greek ones, just like in the Forum of Augustus. Roman temples were usually built on a high podium. They had a portico...
Venus is a Roman goddess whose functions encompass love, beauty, desire, sex, fertility, prosperity, and victory. In Roman mythology, she was the ancestor of the Roman people through her son, Aeneas, who survived the fall of Troy and fled to Italy. Julius Caesar claimed her as his ancestor. Venus was central to many religious festivals, and was revered in Roman religion under numerous cult titles. The Romans adapted the myths and iconography of her Greek counterpart Aphrodite for Roman art and Latin literature. In the later classical tradition of the West, Venus became one of the most widely referenced deities of Greco-Roman mythology as the embodiment of love and sexuality. As such, she is usually depicted nude.  Etymology  The Latin theonym Venus and the common noun venus stem from a Proto-Italic form reconstructed as wenos- , itself from Proto-Indo-European wnh-os 'desire' cf. Messapic Venas, Old Indic vnas 'desire'. Unlike the Proto-Indo-European form, which would have been a neuter s-stem, the Latin term has acquired the feminine gender, perhaps as a consequence of its relation to a female deity. The cognates...
Il Canto degli italiani is a patriotic song written by Goffredo Mameli and set to music by Michele Novaro in 1847, currently used as the national anthem of Italy. It is known among Italians as the Inno di Mameli-after the author of the lyrics-or as Fratelli d'Italia-from the song's opening line. The piece, in 44 time signature and B-flat major key, has six strophes, and a refrain sung after each. The sixth group of verses, almost never performed, recalls the text of the first strophe. The song was popular during the unification of Italy and the following decades. However, after the proclamation of the Kingdom of Italy in 1861, the republican and Jacobin connotations of Fratelli d'Italia were difficult to reconcile with the new state's monarchic constitution. The kingdom instead chose Marcia Reale-the House of Savoy's official anthem-composed by order of King Charles Albert of Sardinia in 1831. After World War II, Italy became a republic. On 12 October 1946, it chose Il Canto degli italiani as a provisional national anthem. The song would retain this role as de facto anthem of the Italian Republic, and after many unsuccessful attempts, gained de jure status on 4 December...
The History of Rome, often abbreviated THoR, was a podcast created by Mike Duncan which aired between 2007 and 2012. In the 2010 podcast awards, THoR won best educational podcast. THoR covers the time period from the origin of the Roman Kingdom to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire, focusing on the most accepted chain of events according to historical consensus.  Origins  Duncan came up with the idea of THoR during a plane flight and subsequent vacation. He was impressed by 12 Byzantine Rulers, a podcast by Lars Brownworth, however, he struggled to find anything similar on the history of Rome. Duncan had a longstanding interest in Roman history and was reading The War With Hannibal by Livy at the time. He enjoyed many of the historical episodes he encountered in the book, but realized that much of the public knew little about Rome outside of Caesar and Augustus' time. One of Duncan's motivators for creating the podcast was to make the whole of Roman history attractive to the public through the form of a podcast.  Making of the podcast  Duncan used primary sources such as Livy and Tacitus as much as possible, while using secondary or modern sources to help judge the veracity...
Roman funerary practices include the Ancient Romans' religious rituals concerning funerals, cremations, and burials. They were part of time-hallowed tradition , the unwritten code from which Romans derived their social norms. Elite funeral rites, especially processions and public eulogies, gave the family an opportunity to publicly celebrate the life and deeds of the deceased, their ancestors, and the family's standing in the community. Sometimes the political elite gave costly public feasts, games and popular entertainments after family funerals, to honour the departed and to maintain their own public profile and reputation for generosity. The Roman gladiator games began as funeral gifts for the deceased in high-status families. Funeral displays and expenses were supposedly constrained by sumptuary laws, designed to reduce class envy and consequent social conflict. The less well-off, and those who lacked the support of an extended family could subscribe to guilds or collegia which provided funeral services for members. Until their funeral and disposal, the dead presented a risk of ritual pollution. This was managed through funerary rituals which separated them from...
Italy, officially the Italian Republic, is a country in Southern and Western Europe. It consists of a peninsula, which extends into the Mediterranean Sea, with the Alps on its northern land border, as well as nearly 800 islands, notably Sicily and Sardinia. Italy shares land borders with France to the west Switzerland and Austria to the north Slovenia to the east and the two enclaves of Vatican City and San Marino. It is the tenth-largest country in Europe by area, covering 301,340 km2 , and the third-most populous member state of the European Union, with nearly 59 million inhabitants. Rome is the capital of Italy other major cities include Milan, Naples, Turin, Palermo, Bologna, Florence, Genoa, Bari, and Venice. The history of Italy goes back to numerous Italic peoples, notably including the ancient Romans, who conquered the Mediterranean world during the Roman Republic and ruled it for centuries during the Roman Empire. With the spread of Christianity, Rome became the seat of the Catholic Church and the Papacy. Barbarian invasions and other factors led to the decline and fall of the Western Roman Empire between late antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. By the 11th...
The Roman legion was the largest military unit of the Roman army, composed of Roman citizens serving as legionaries. During the Roman Republic the manipular legion comprised 4,200 infantry and 300 cavalry. In late Republican times the legions were formed of 5,200 men and were restructured around 10 cohorts, the first cohort being double strength. This structure persisted throughout the Principate and middle Empire, before further changes in the fourth century resulted in new formations of around 1,000 men.  Size  The size of a typical legion varied throughout the history of ancient Rome, with complements ranging from 4,200 legionaries and 300 equites drawn from the wealthier classes - in early Rome all troops provided their own equipment in the Republic, to 5,500 in the Imperial period, when most legions were led by a Roman Imperial Legate. A legion had 4,800 legionaries in 10 cohorts of 6 centuries of 80 legionaries from the late republic to the time of Julius Caesar. It expanded to 5,280 men plus 120 auxiliaries in the Imperial period split into 10 cohorts, nine of 480 men each, with the first cohort being almost double-strength at 800 men...
A scribe is a person who serves as a professional copyist, especially one who made copies of manuscripts before the invention of automatic printing. The work of scribes can involve copying manuscripts and other scripts as well as secretarial and administrative duties such as the taking of dictation and keeping of business, judicial, and historical records for kings, nobles, temples, and cities. The profession of scribe first appears in Mesopotamia. Scribes contributed in fundamental ways to ancient and medieval cultures, including Egypt, China, India, Persia, the Roman Empire, and medieval Europe. Judaism, Buddhism, and Islam have important scribal traditions. Scribes have been essential in these cultures for the preservation of legal codes, religious texts, and artistic and didactic literature. In some cultures, social functions of the scribe and of the calligrapher overlap, but the emphasis in scribal writing is on exactitude, whereas calligraphy aims to express the aesthetic qualities of writing apart from its content. Previously a prominent fixture in literary cultures, scribes lost most of their prominence and status with the advent of the printing press. The generally less prestigious...
Vigiles or more properly the Vigiles Urbani or Cohortes Vigilum were the firefighters and police of ancient Rome.  History  The triumviri nocturni were the first men, being privately owned slaves, organized into a group that combatted the common problems of fire and conflagrations in Rome. Another organization dedicated to fighting fires in ancient Rome was a band of slaves led by the aedile Marcus Egnatius Rufus. The privately operated system became ineffective, so in the interest of keeping himself and Rome safe, Augustus instituted a new public firefighting force called the vigiles. Augustus modelled the new firefighters after the fire brigade of Alexandria, Egypt. The vigiles were also known by their nickname Sparteoli or little bucket fellows, given to them because of the buckets they carried water in, which were made of rope sealed with pitch. In AD 6, Augustus levied a 4 tax on the sale of slaves and used the proceeds to set up the new force. The first units of vigiles were under the command of the aediles and the vicomagistri. There were only 6,000 vigiles and they were initially all...
Auctoritas is a Latin word that is the origin of the English word authority. While historically its use in English was restricted to discussions of the political history of Rome, the beginning of phenomenological philosophy in the 20th century expanded the use of the word. In ancient Rome, auctoritas referred to the level of prestige a person had in Roman society, and, as a consequence, his standing, influence, and ability to rally support around his will. Auctoritas was not merely political, however it had a numinous content and symbolized the mysterious power of command of heroic Roman figures. Noble women could also achieve a degree of auctoritas. For example, the wives, sisters, and mothers of the Julio-Claudians had immense influence on society, the masses, and the political apparatus. Their auctoritas was exercised less overtly than that of their male counterparts due to Roman societal norms, but they were powerful nonetheless.  Etymology and origin  According to linguist mile Benveniste, auctor is derived from Latin auge . The auctor is is qui auget, the one who augments the act or the...
Dame Winifred Mary Beard is an English classicist specialising in Ancient Rome. She is a trustee of the British Museum and formerly held a personal professorship of classics at the University of Cambridge. She is a fellow of Newnham College, Cambridge, and Royal Academy of Arts Professor of Ancient Literature. Beard is the classics editor of The Times Literary Supplement, for which she also writes a regular blog, A Don's Life. Her frequent media appearances and sometimes controversial public statements have led to her being described as Britain's best-known classicist. In 2014, The New Yorker characterised her as learned but accessible.  Early life and education  Mary Beard, an only child, was born on 1 January 1955 in Much Wenlock, Shropshire, England. Her mother, Joyce Emily Beard, was a headmistress and an enthusiastic reader. Her father, Roy Whitbread Beard, worked as an architect in Shrewsbury. She recalled him as a raffish public-schoolboy type and a complete wastrel, but very engaging. Beard first became interested in the classics during a 1960 visit to the British Museum with her mother. She describes sitting on her mother's shoulders, trying...
Prostitution has been practiced throughout ancient and modern cultures. Prostitution has been described as the world's oldest profession, though this is unverifiable, and most likely incorrect.  Ancient Near East  The Ancient Near East was home to many shrines, temples, or houses of heaven, which were dedicated to various deities. These shrines and temples were documented by the Greek historian Herodotus in The Histories, where sacred prostitution was a common practice. Sumerian records dating back to ca. 2400 BCE are the earliest recorded mention of prostitution as an occupation. These describe a temple brothel operated by Sumerian priests in the city of Uruk. This kakum, or temple, was dedicated to the goddess Ishtar and was home to three classes of women. The first class of women was only permitted to perform sexual rituals in the temple: the second class had access to the grounds and catered to visitors and the third and lowest class lived on the temple grounds. The third class was also free to find customers on the streets. In the region of Canaan, a significant portion of temple prostitutes were male. Male prostitution was also widely practiced in Sardinia and in some...
Ab urbe condita Latin:  'from the founding of the City', or anno urbis conditae Latin:  'in the year since the city's founding', abbreviated as AUC or AVC in Classical Latin inscriptions, expresses a date in years since 753 BC, the traditional founding of Rome. It is an expression used in antiquity and by classical historians to refer to a given year in Ancient Rome. In reference to the traditional year of the foundation of Rome, the year 1 BC would be written AUC 753, whereas AD 1 would be AUC 754. The foundation of the Roman Empire in 27 BC would be AUC 727. The current year AD 2026 would be AUC 2779. Usage of the term was more common during the Renaissance, when editors sometimes added AUC to Roman manuscripts they published, giving the false impression that the convention was commonly used in antiquity. In reality, the dominant method of identifying years in Roman times was to name the two consuls who held office that year. In late antiquity, regnal years were also in use, as in Roman Egypt during the Diocletian era after AD 293, and in the Byzantine Empire from AD 537, following a decree by Justinian.  Use  Prior to the...
The Roman people was the body of Roman citizens Latin: Rmn Ancient Greek:  Rhmaoi during the Roman Kingdom, the Roman Republic, and the Roman Empire. This concept underwent considerable changes throughout the long history of the Roman civilisation, as its borders expanded and contracted. Originally only including the ethnic Latins from Rome itself, Roman citizenship was extended to the rest of the Italic peoples by the 1st century BC and to nearly every subject of the Roman empire in late antiquity. At their peak, the Romans ruled large parts of Europe, the Near East, and North Africa through conquests made during the Roman Republic and the subsequent Roman Empire. Although defined primarily as a citizenship, Roman-ness has also and variously been described as a cultural identity, a nationality, or a multi-ethnicity that eventually encompassed a vast regional diversity. Citizenship grants, demographic growth, and settler and military colonies rapidly increased the number of Roman citizens. The increase achieved its peak with Emperor Caracalla's AD 212 Antonine Constitution, which extended citizenship rights to all free inhabitants of the empire. Roman identity provided...
The Roman lead poisoning theory is the hypothesis that chronic lead exposure contributed to the decline of the Roman Empire. Some historians and scientists suggest that the widespread use of lead in water pipes , cookware, and wine sweeteners led to widespread lead poisoning, affecting public health, cognitive function, and decision-making among the Roman elite. However, the extent of lead's impact remains debated, with critics arguing that exposure levels were not high enough to cause significant harm.  Background  The theory that lead poisoning contributed to the decline of the Roman Empire originated in the 19th century. Early proponents suggested that the Roman aristocracy's use of lead cookware and utensils led to chronic lead poisoning, resulting in health issues such as infertility and cognitive impairments. This hypothesis was based on observations of the widespread use of lead in Roman daily life, including in water pipes, cooking vessels, and as an additive in wine.  20th century   S. Colum Gilfillan  In the 20th century, researchers like S. C. Gilfillan expanded on this theory, proposing that lead poisoning caused lowered fertility, miscarriages...
Archaeological evidence indicates that Rome developed from the gradual union of several hilltop villages during the Final Bronze Age or early Iron Age. Prehistoric habitation of the Italian Peninsula occurred by 48,000 years ago, with the area of Rome being settled by around 1600 BC. Some evidence on the Capitoline Hill possibly dates as early as c. 1700 BC and the nearby valley that later housed the Roman Forum had a developed necropolis by at least 1000 BC. The combination of the hilltop settlements into a single polity by the later 8th century BC was probably influenced by the trend for city-state formation emerging from ancient Greece. Roman myth held that their city was founded by Romulus, son of the war god Mars and the Vestal virgin Rhea Silvia, fallen princess of Alba Longa and descendant of Aeneas of Troy. Exposed on the Tiber river, Romulus and his twin Remus were suckled by a she-wolf at the Lupercal before being raised by the shepherd Faustulus, taking revenge on their usurping great-uncle Amulius, and restoring Alba Longa to their grandfather Numitor. The brothers then decided to establish a new town but quarrelled over some details, ending with Remus's murder and the establishment...
The Capitolium or Capitoline Hill  KAP-it--lyne, k-PIT- Italian: Campidoglio  Latin: Mons Capitolinus , between the Forum and the Campus Martius, is one of the Seven Hills of Rome. The hill was earlier known as Mons Saturnius, dedicated to the god Saturn. The word Capitolium first referred to the Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus which was located on the hill however, the meaning evolved to refer to the whole hill and even other temples of Jupiter on other hills. In an etymological myth, ancient sources connect the name to caput because of a tale that stated that when the foundations for the temple were being laid, a man's head was found. The Capitolium was regarded by the Romans as indestructible, and was adopted as a symbol of eternity. The word Capitolium is a precursor to the English word capitol, and Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. is widely assumed to be named after the Capitoline Hill.  Ancient history  At this hill, the Sabines, creeping to the Citadel, were let in by the Roman maiden Tarpeia. For this treachery, Tarpeia was the first to be punished by being flung from a steep cliff overlooking the Roman Forum...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 583 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
ML is the metalanguage developed for the Edinburgh LCF theorem prover in the 1970s. It is an early statically typed, functional language with polymorphic type inference in the Hindley-Milner style, and other features like exceptions and mutable variables. ML's design in LCF directly inspired the later ML family notably Standard ML, Caml, and their derivatives and influenced subsequent functional language development.  History  ML started development by Robin Milner upon his arrival at University of Edinburgh in 1973 with the help of research assistants Lockwood Morris and Malcolm Newey, both postdocs from Stanford who were hired by Milner. Michael Gordon, Christopher Wadsworth, and other graduate students joined in research by 1975. Historically, ML was conceived to develop proof tactics in the LCF theorem prover and succeed the previous iteration Stanford LCF, trying to solve issues regarding space utilization and proof extensibility. ML acted as both a metalanguage and command language for the LCF system. PPLAMBDA, a language that was conceptually a combination of the first-order predicate calculus and the simply typed polymorphic lambda...
Scala is a strongly statically typed high-level general-purpose programming language that supports both object-oriented programming and functional programming. Designed to be concise, many of Scala's design decisions are intended to address criticism of Java. Scala source code can be compiled to JVM bytecode and run on a Java virtual machine . Scala can also be transpiled to JavaScript to run in a browser, or compiled directly to a native executable using Clang. When running on the JVM, Scala provides language interoperability with Java so that libraries written in either language may be referenced directly in Scala or Java code. Like Java, Scala is object-oriented, and uses a syntax termed curly-brace which is similar to the language C. Scala 3 added an option to use the off-side rule to structure blocks, and its use is advised. Martin Odersky has said that this turned out to be the most productive change introduced in Scala 3. Unlike Java, Scala has many features of functional programming languages , including currying, immutability, lazy evaluation, and pattern matching. It also has an advanced type system supporting...
Sawzall is a procedural domain-specific programming language, used by Google to process large numbers of individual log records. Sawzall was first described in 2003, and the szl runtime was open-sourced in August 2010. However, since the MapReduce table aggregators have not been released, the open-sourced runtime is not useful for large-scale data analysis of multiple log files off the shelf. Sawzall has been replaced by Lingo for most purposes within Google.  Motivation  Google's server logs are stored as large collections of records that are partitioned over many disks within GFS. In order to perform calculations involving the logs, engineers can write MapReduce programs in C or Java. MapReduce programs need to be compiled and may be more verbose than necessary, so writing a program to analyze the logs can be time-consuming. To make it easier to write quick scripts, Rob Pike et al. developed the Sawzall language. A Sawzall script runs within the Map phase of a MapReduce and emits values to tables. Then the Reduce phase which the script writer does not have to be concerned about aggregates the tables from multiple runs into a single set of...
Whitespace is an esoteric programming language with syntax where only whitespace characters have meaning - contrasting typical languages that largely ignore whitespace characters. As a consequence of its syntax, Whitespace source code can be contained within the whitespace of code written in a language that ignores whitespace - making the text a polyglot. Whitespace is an imperative, stack-based language. The programmer can push arbitrary-width integer values onto a stack and access a heap to store data. An interpreter, along with its Haskell source code, is provided by the Whitespace creators.  History  Edwin Brady and Chris Morris, who also developed the Kaya and Idris languages, created Whitespace in 2002 at the University of Durham. Slashdot published a review on April Fool's Day 2003. The idea of using whitespace characters as operators for the C language had been facetiously suggested five years earlier by Bjarne Stroustrup.  Syntax  Whitespace defines a command as a sequence of whitespace characters. For example, performs arithmetic addition of the top two elements on the stack. A command is written as an instruction...
In computing, a script is a relatively short and simple set of instructions that typically automate an otherwise manual process. The act of writing a script is called scripting. A scripting language or script language is a programming language that is used for scripting. Originally, scripting was limited to automating shells in operating systems, and languages were relatively simple. Today, scripting is more pervasive and some scripting languages include modern features that allow them to be used to develop application software also.  Overview  A scripting language can be a general-purpose programming language or a domain-specific language for a given environment. When embedded in an application, it may be called an extension language. A scripting language is sometimes referred to as very high-level programming language if it operates at a high level of abstraction, or as a control language, especially for job control languages on mainframe computers. The term scripting language is sometimes used in a wider sense, to refer to dynamic high-level programming languages in general. Some are strictly interpreted languages, while others use a form of compilation. In this context, the...
Scheme is a dialect of the Lisp family of programming languages. Scheme was created during the 1970s at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and released by its developers, Guy L. Steele and Gerald Jay Sussman, via a series of memos now known as the Lambda Papers. It was the first dialect of Lisp to choose lexical scope and the first to require implementations to perform tail-call optimization, giving stronger support for functional programming and associated techniques such as recursive algorithms. It was also one of the first programming languages to support first-class continuations. It had a significant influence on the effort that led to the development of Common Lisp. The Scheme language is standardized in the official Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers standard and a de facto standard named the Revisedn Report on the Algorithmic Language Scheme . A widely implemented standard is R5RS . The most recently ratified standard of Scheme is R7RS-small . The more expansive and modular R6RS was ratified in 2007. Both trace their descent from R5RS the timeline below reflects the chronological order of ratification...
Four Seasons Private Residences at 706 Mission Street, San Francisco is a 43-story, 510 ft residential skyscraper in the South of Market district of San Francisco, California. Located across the street from Yerba Buena Gardens and Moscone Center, the tower site is bounded by Mission Street on the south and 3rd Street on the east, and incorporates the historic Aronson Building in its design. The tower contains 148 condominiums on the upper floors and a planned permanent home for the Mexican Museum on the bottom four floors.  History  The project was approved by the San Francisco Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors in 2013, and construction started in February 2016. Pre-sales for the 146 condos began in May 2019, ranging from 2.3 million per unit up to 49 million for the top-floor penthouse, making the latter the highest-priced penthouse in San Francisco. It has 12 penthouse units priced in the 15 million to 25 million range. The project was taken over by Westbrook Partners in the fall of 2019, creating the 706 Mission Co. LLC entity. In October 2019, the San Francisco Business Times reported that The Four Seasons Private Residences...
Drake Dabney is an American professional football tight end for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League . He played college football for the Baylor Bears and TCU Horned Frogs.  Early life and college career  Dabney was born on May 14, 2002, and grew up in Cypress, Texas. He attended Cypress Ranch High School where he played football as a tight end and was one of his team's top receivers. He twice earned all-district honors and posted 35 catches for 476 yards and seven touchdowns as a senior. A three-star recruit, Dabney initially committed to play college football for the Arizona Wildcats. He later changed his commitment to the Baylor Bears. Dabney caught six passes for 57 yards in six games as a true freshman in 2020, then recorded 10 receptions for 91 yards and two touchdowns while starting eight games for the Bears in 2021. He had 16 catches for 173 yards in 2022 before suffering a broken fibula, which ended his season. He opened the 2023 season with 101 receiving yards against Texas State, the best game for a Baylor tight end in 59 years. In total, he started nine games for the 2023 Bears, setting the school record for a tight end with...
NK Belie is a Croatian football club based in the town of Belie.  History  NK Belie was founded in 1919 under the name BK . The club's name was changed in 1925 to BRK . During World War II the club was named Viktorija. From 1945 until the 1960 club was called FD Proleter and from 1960 carries the current name. The club from its beginnings until today, closely related to the factory Belie d.d.  Stadium  NK Belie host domestic matches at Gradski stadion Belie which has a capacity of 3,000. The stadium was improved with a new grandstand in 2019 to celebrate the club's 100th anniversary and to ensure the club qualified to play in the 2. HNL.  Supporters  The team's fans are known as Baraberi. The most passionate group of Baraberi encourages their favorites wherever they played, and on the home match at the Gradski stadion is located on the eastern stand.  Recent seasons   Current squad  As of 4 February 2023 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  References  2...
Neft Theater is an alternative independent theater based in Kharkiv since 2018. Neft is an open theatrical platform, where there is no fixed troupe and classical canons. Actors, directors, musicians, choreographers, and artists can share their ideas at Neft, gather a team and implement a new theater project. A performance of Anton and Natasha in Search of the Meaning of Life as part of Parade-fest. A theatrical and urban festival based on the idea of rethinking and shaping the image of Kharkiv through art. Ukraine, Kharkiv, 2018.  References   External links  Official website
Manuel Dominguez Ralph Onis , nicknamed Curly, was an American professional baseball player who played catcher in one game for the Brooklyn Dodgers on April 27, 1935. Onis singled in his only at-bat for a rare career batting average of 1.000. His parents were born in Asturias, Spain, and he is buried in the Centro Asturiano de Tampa. Onis managed in the Florida State League in 1939 and 1940.  Further reading  Tellis, Richard . Once Around the Bases: Bittersweet Memories of Only One Game in the Majors. Triumph Books. pp. 21-28. ISBN 1572432772.  External links  Career statistics from Baseball Reference  Baseball Reference  Retrosheet  Baseball Almanac
Aeroflot Flight 3352 was a regularly scheduled Aeroflot domestic flight in the Soviet Union from Krasnodar to Novosibirsk, with an intermediate landing in Omsk. While landing at Omsk Airport on Thursday, 11 October 1984, the Tupolev Tu-154 crashed into maintenance vehicles on the runway, killing 174 people on board and four on the ground. While a chain of mistakes in airport operations contributed to the accident, its major cause was an air traffic controller falling asleep on duty. As of 2026, this remains the deadliest aviation accident on Russian territory. It was also the deadliest aviation accident involving a Tupolev Tu-154 at the time until the crash of Aeroflot Flight 5143 nine months later as of 2026, it still ranks as the second-deadliest accident involving a Tupolev Tu-154. According to Komsomolskaya Pravda in 2017, the newspaper was the first to talk about the accident, as for 20 years, journalists had been silent.  Background  The Tupolev Tu-154 B-1 was operated by Aeroflot . It was equipped with three Kuznetsov NK-8-2U engines, and first flew in 1977. The flight carried 170 passengers, including eight teenagers and 16 young children 2...
Christina Tosi is an American chef and cookbook author. She is founder and co-owner with Momofuku of Milk Bar and serves as its chef and chief executive officer. She also created Milk Bar Pie and Cereal Milk. Food  Wine magazine included her in their 2014 list of Most Innovative Women in Food and Drink. She is the author of several cookbooks. She has served as a judge on the reality competition MasterChef and presented for the Netflix series Bake Squad. She has won two James Beard Foundation Awards.  Early life and education  Tosi was born in 1981 in Berea, Ohio her father, Gino Tosi, was an agricultural economist and her mother managing partner in an accounting firm. The couple divorced while Tosi was a teenager, and she was raised primarily in Springfield, Virginia. She has an older sister, Angela. Tosi recalls not being allowed to say I can't or I'm bored. Her interest in baking dates to her childhood both of her grandmothers are avid bakers, according to Tosi. Her parents were both fond of sweets. She ran track in high school and still runs regularly. She was interested in math and foreign languages. In college she worked serving tables and then as a prep...
Richard Howland Hunt was an American architect and member of the Hunt family of Vermont who worked with his brother Joseph Howland Hunt in New York City at Hunt  Hunt. The brothers were sons of Richard Morris Hunt, the first American Beaux-Arts architect. Richard practiced in his father's office until the elder Hunt died in 1895, then continued to carry out his father's designs for the central block of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, not without initial resistance by the museum's trustees. In 1901, the brothers formed a partnership that lasted until Joseph's death in 1924.  Early life  Hunt was born on March 14, 1862, in Paris, where his father, Richard Morris Hunt , was completing his architectural studies. His mother, Catherine Clinton Howland , was the youngest daughter of the prominent merchant Samuel Shaw Howland of Howland  Aspinwall. His siblings were Catharine Howland Hunt wife of Rear Adm. Livingston Hunt, son of William H. Hunt, fellow architect Joseph Howland Hunt, Esther Morris Hunt , and oilman Herbert Leavitt Hunt . Hunt studied architecture at...
Nicholas Thomas Walker is an English professional footballer who plays as a winger for Liversedge. He has notably played as a professional for Rotherham United, Barrow, Wycombe Wanderers and Grimsby Town, despite only four appearances combined during this period. He has since gone on to play non-league football for Boston United, Buxton, Shaw Lane, Gainsborough Trinity, Alfreton Town, Whitby Town and Guiseley.  Career   Rotherham United  Walker started his career with Rotherham United, starting a two-year scholarship with the club in the summer of 2011. He made his professional debut whilst still a youth player on 17 November 2012, in a 4-2 win over Cheltenham Town in League Two, replacing Courtney Cameron as a substitute. Soon after, Walker was soon linked with many Championship clubs keen to sign him. At the 2012-13 season, Walker signed his first professional contract at the club. Shortly after, Walker switched number shirt from thirty-two to twenty-nine. On 25 October 2013, Walker joined Conference North side Barrow a one-month loan deal. Following his loan spell at Barrow came to an end, Walker contract with Rotherham United was extended for another...
Erettopterus is a genus of large predatory eurypterid, an extinct group of aquatic arthropods. Fossils of Erettopterus have been discovered in deposits ranging from Early Silurian to the Early Devonian , and have been referred to several different species. Fossils have been recovered from three continents Asia, Europe and North America. The genus name is composed by the Ancient Greek words  , which means rower, and  , which means wing, and therefore, rower wing. Erettopterus is classified as part of the eurypterid family Pterygotidae, a family differentiated from other eurypterids by their flattened telsons and their modified chelicerae , ending in well-developed chelae . Although some pterygotid eurypterids, such as Jaekelopterus or Acutiramus grew to gigantic proportions, it is estimated that the largest species of Erettopterus, E. osiliensis, reached 90 cm . Fragmentary remains suggest much larger sizes, perhaps approaching the largest eurypterids. Erettopterus had a bilobed telson, which is its main characteristic...
Western Plains USD 106 is a public unified school district headquartered in Ransom, Kansas, United States. The district includes the communities of Ransom, Arnold, Bazine, Brownell, Utica, and nearby rural areas.  Schools  The school district operates the following schools: Western Plains High School in Ransom Western Plains South ElementaryJunior High School in Bazine Western Plains North Elementary School in Ransom  History  In 1945 , the School Reorganization Act in Kansas caused the consolidation of thousands of rural school districts in Kansas. In 1963, the School Unification Act in Kansas caused the further consolidatation of thousands of tiny school districts into hundreds of larger Unified School Districts. USD 106 was formed in 2004 by the consolidation of Ransom USD 302 and Bazine USD 304. In 2005, NesTre La Go USD 301 dissolved, and most of its students moved to Western Plains USD 106. On Friday, August 21, 2026 Superintendent and Principal of over a decade Jeff Jones was arrested in school. Jones was arrested on ten charges including misuse of public funds, theft, permitting a false claim, misconduct, encouraging of a child to commit a felony...
George Davis was a Dutch-born American actor. He appeared in more than 260 films between 1916 and 1963. He was born in Amsterdam and died in Los Angeles, California, from cancer.  Selected filmography   References   External links  George Davis at IMDb
Jang Do-yeon is a South Korean comedian.  Education  Jang was a student at Kyung Hee University's College of Art and Design, although, due to commitments in television broadcasts, she has yet to graduate from her course.  Career  In 2007, Jang made her debut in the South Korean entertainment industry when she appeared on Mnet's talk show, Shin Dong-yeop's Talk King 18. In the following year, she became a cast member of Gag Concert, after joining the 22nd class of KBS comedians. In 2017 she was a cast member in MBC's variety show We Got Married, paired with actor Choi Min-yong. Since April 2025, she signed contract with SM Culture  Contents .  Filmography   Television series   Television shows   Hosting   Web shows   Accolades   Awards and nominations   State honors   Listicles   Notes   References   External links  Jang Do-yeon on Instagram thumb
The BC-348 is an American-made communications receiver, which was mass-produced during World War II for the U.S. Army Air Force. Under the joint Army-Navy nomenclature system, the receiver system became known as the ANARR-11.  History  The BC-348 is the 28 vdc powered version of the 14 vdc powered BC-224. The first version, the BC-224-A, was produced in 1936. Installed in almost all USAAF multi-engined transports and bombers used during the fifteen-year period from before World War II through the Korean War, BC-348 radio receivers were easy to operate and reliable. They were also installed in some similar USN, British, and Canadian aircraft. Designed as LFMFHF receivers for use in larger aircraft , they were initially paired with a BC-375 transmitter in the SCR-287-A system. Late in World War II, the ANARR-11 was the receiver and the ANART-13A was the transmitter in the ANARC-8 system. They were also used in some ground and mobile installations such as the ANMRC-20. The BC-348 series ran through several variations during its long production history, which included the BC-224. More than 100,000 of these receivers were...
The Bilimora-Waghai section belongs to Mumbai WR division of Western Railway zone in Gujarat State of India.  History  Bilimora-Rankuwa branch was opened in 1914. The length of Bilimora-Rankuwa branch was 21 km. Rankuwa-Unai branch was opened in 1915. The length of Rankuwa-Unai branch was 20 km. Unai-Kalamba branch was opened in 1917. The length of Unai-Kalamba branch was 14 km. Kalamba-Dungarda and Dungarda-Waghai branch was opened in 1926 and 1929 respectively. Total length of Bilimora-Waghai section is 63 km. The 63-km Bilimora-Waghai track was laid by the British at the instance of the Sayajirao Gaekwad in 1913. It was a part of Gaekwad's Baroda State Railway, the railway line owned by the Princely State of Baroda which was ruled by the Gaekwad dynasty. The main intention was to keep their connection with the royal state. The Gaekwad rulers also used this train for transportation of precious teak wood from forests. After independence of India, Gaekwad's Baroda State Railway was merged and became a part of Western Railway. In December 2020, Railway Board decided to close 11 sections including Bilimora-Waghai section permanently. BJP MLA from Dang, Vijay Patel, Congress MLA of...
Indians in Brunei consist of Bruneians of Indian descent as well as expatriate professionals that have recently come to the country. According to the Government of India, there are 10,000 Indians living and working in the country.  History  Indians in Brunei have had a notable presence in the country since the colonial days, however there are records from the Europeans who visited the region that there were people from the Indian Subcontinent already living there prior to European colonisation. According to United Nations statistics, the Indian population was counted in the Brunei census since the year of 1947. In 1971, Indians made up 1.6 of the population.  Employment  The number of Indian nationals working in Brunei had increased since 2009. There are many Indian doctors and engineers working in Brunei and there are others working in the education sector, both at school and university or college level as professors and teachers as well as research personnel. Other areas where Indians are employed include IT, oil and gas and mercantile.  Ethnicity and Religion  Ethnic Tamils form the majority group of Indians in Brunei. The Indian community of Brunei consists of Muslims...
This list of ancient peoples living in Italy summarises all the different Italian populations that existed in antiquity in historiography, they are generally referred to as the Italic peoples in linguistics, this term has a stricter meaning and refers specifically to the sub-group of Indo-Europeans consisting of the Latino-Faliscans and Osco-Umbrians. Among these peoples, the Romans succeeded in Romanizing the entire Italian peninsula following the Roman expansion in Italy, which provides the time-window in which most of the names of the remaining ancient Italian peoples first appear in existing written documentation. Many names are exonyms assigned by the ancient writers of works in ancient Greek and Latin, while others are scholarly inventions. Nearly all of these peoples and tribes spoke Indo-European languages: Italic languages, Celtic, Ancient Greek, in addition to intermediate positions between these language groups. On the other hand, some Italian peoples likely spoke non- or pre-Indo-European languages. In addition, peoples speaking languages of the Afro-Asiatic family, specifically the largely Semitic Phoenicians and Carthaginians...
A tribus, or tribe, was a division of the Roman people for military, censorial, and voting purposes. When constituted in the comitia tributa, the tribes were the voting units of a legislative assembly of the Roman Republic. According to tradition, the first three tribes were established by Romulus each was divided into ten curiae, or wards, which were the voting units of the comitia curiata. Although the curiae continued throughout Roman history, the three original tribes that they constituted gradually vanished from history. Perhaps influenced by the original division of the people into tribes, as well as the number of thirty wards, Servius Tullius established four tribes dividing Rome and various pagi over the countryside, which later became seventeen rural tribes. After the formation of the republic, these tribes were assembled into a popular assembly called the comitia tributa. As the Roman population and its territory grew, fifteen additional tribes were enrolled, the last in 241 BC. All Roman citizens were enrolled in one of these tribes, through which they were entitled to vote on the election of certain magistrates, religious officials, judicial decisions in certain suits...
The socii or foederati were protectorates of Rome and the citizens thereof they formed one of the three types of civic community in Roman Italy along with the core Roman citizens and the extended Latini. The Latini, who were simultaneously special confederates and semi-citizens , derived their name from the Italic people of which Rome was part but did not coincide with the region of Latium in central Italy as they were located in colonies throughout the peninsula. This tripartite organisation lasted from the Roman expansion in Italy to the Social War , when all peninsular inhabitants south of the Po river were awarded Roman citizenship. Treaties known as foedera served as the basic template for Rome's settlement with the large array of tribes and city-states of the whole Italian Peninsula. The confederacy had its origin in the foedus Cassianum signed by the fledgling Roman Republic with its neighbouring Latin city-states shortly after the overthrow of the Roman monarchy in 510 BC. This provided for mutual defence by...
In archaeological terms, graffiti are marks, images or writing scratched or engraved into a surface. There have been numerous examples found on sites of the Roman Empire, including taverns and houses, as well as on pottery of the time. In many cases the graffiti tend toward the rude, with a line etched into the basilica in Pompeii reading Lucilla made money from her body, phallic images, as well as erotic pictures. Other graffiti took on a more innocent nature, taking the form of simple pictures or games. Although many forms of Roman graffiti are indecipherable, studying the graffiti left behind from the Roman Period can give a better understanding of the daily life and attitudes of the Roman people with conclusions drawn about how everyday Romans talked, where they spent their time, and their interactions within those spaces.  Graffiti samples  Inscriptions cover a range of topics from poems, advertisements, political statements, to greetings. There are two forms of graffiti: painted inscriptions and inscribed inscriptions . Many forms of graffiti also give insight to what certain locations acted as during the...
Classical education may refer to: Modern, educational practices and educational movements: An education in the Classics, especially in Ancient Greek and Latin Classical education movement, based on the trivium and quadrivium astronomy, arithmetic, music and geometry Classical Christian education, an application of the classical education movement with an emphasis on the Christian faith Classical Islamic education, see: Madrasah Ijazah Historical, educational practices and values: Education in ancient Greece Education in ancient Rome The curriculum of the Middle Ages, see Medieval university Classical Chinese education, see: Imperial examination Scholar-bureaucrats
Vulcan Latin: Vulcanus, in archaically retained spelling also Volcanus, both pronounced  is the god of fire including the fire of volcanoes, deserts, metalworking and the forge in ancient Roman religion and myth. He is often depicted with a blacksmith's hammer. The Vulcanalia was the annual festival held August 23 in his honor. His Greek counterpart is Hephaestus, the god of fire and smithery. In Etruscan religion, he is identified with Sethlans. Vulcan belongs to the most ancient stage of Roman religion: Varro, the ancient Roman scholar and writer, citing the Annales Maximi, records that king Titus Tatius dedicated altars to a series of deities including Vulcan.  Etymology  The origin of the name is unclear. Roman tradition maintained that it was related to Latin words connected to lightning , which in turn was thought of as related to flames. This interpretation is supported by Walter William Skeat in his etymological dictionary as meaning lustre. It has been supposed that his name was not Latin but related to that of the Cretan god Velchanos, a god of nature and the nether world. Wolfgang Meid has disputed this identification as fantastic...
Lucius Annaeus Seneca the Younger , usually known mononymously as Seneca, was a Stoic philosopher of Ancient Rome, a statesman, a dramatist, and in one work a satirist from the post-Augustan age of Latin literature. Seneca was born in Colonia Patricia Corduba in Hispania, and was trained in rhetoric and philosophy in Greece. His father was Seneca the Elder, his elder brother was Lucius Junius Gallio Annaeanus, and his nephew was the poet Lucan. In AD 41, Seneca was exiled to the island of Corsica under emperor Claudius, but was allowed to return in 49 to become a tutor to Nero. When Nero became emperor in 54, Seneca became his advisor and, together with the praetorian prefect Sextus Afranius Burrus, provided competent government for the first five years of Nero's reign. Seneca's influence over Nero declined with time, and in 65 Seneca was executed by forced suicide for alleged complicity in the Pisonian conspiracy to assassinate Nero, of which he may have been innocent, although there is still no consensus agreement. His stoic and calm suicide has become the subject of numerous paintings. As a writer, Seneca is known for his philosophical...
Administrative, legal, fiscal, and military power in the Roman Empire came from the Roman emperors and the centres of governance were at their locations. Throughout the history of the empire multiple cities were used by the emperors as their place of residence, for minting coinage, or where they issued major legislation. Rome was the centre until the Crisis of the Third Century and Tetrarchy, but returned to importance in the 5th century. Antioch, Nicomedia, Thessalonica, Sirmium, Trier, and Mediolanum were used as residences by multiple emperors in the 3rd and 4th centuries. Constantinople was dedicated by Constantine the Great in 330 AD and became the permanent seat of the emperor in the east starting with Theodosius I. After 312 AD no other emperor in that century resided in Rome and Ravenna was used as a residence by Honorius and Valentinian III, but the western emperors used both cities before the disposition of Romulus Augustulus.  Governance  The system of government present in the Roman Empire resulted in all administrative, legal, fiscal, and military power being vested in the Roman emperor and thus the centre of governance was at his location. The state was centralised...
The prosopography of ancient Rome is an approach to classical studies and ancient history that focuses on family connections, political alliances, and social networks in ancient Rome. The methodology of Roman prosopography involves defining a group for study-often the social ranking called ordo in Latin, as of senators and equestrians-then collecting and analyzing data. Literary sources provide evidence mainly for the ruling elite. Epigraphy and papyrology are sources that may also document ordinary people, who have been studied in groups such as imperial freedmen, lower-class families, and specific occupations such as wet nurses . In German scholarship, Friedrich Mnzer's many biographical articles for Realencyclopdie der Classischen Altertumswissenschaft took a prosopographical approach. Matthias Gelzer, one of the founders of prosopographical methodology in relation to ancient Rome, focused on the social institution of patronage and its effects on the Roman political system. Leading 20th-century scholars who wrote in English on the prosopography of the Roman Republic include T.R.S. Broughton, whose three-volume The Magistrates of the Roman Republic is a standard reference...
Ancient Greece was an ancient civilization existing from the Greek Dark Ages of the 12th-9th centuries BC to the end of classical antiquity , comprising a loose collection of culturally and linguistically related city-states and regions, primarily centered in the northeastern area of the Mediterranean Sea. Prior to the Roman period, most of this area was officially unified only once, from 338 to 323 BC under the Kingdom of Macedon. In Western history, the era of classical antiquity was immediately followed by the Early Middle Ages and the Byzantine period. Scholars mark Ancient Greece as beginning with Mycenaean Greece, which declined during the Bronze Age collapse c. 1100 BC. Three centuries later, Greek urban city-states, or poleis, began to form in the 8th century BC, ushering in the Archaic period and Greek colonization of the Mediterranean Basin. This was followed by the intellectual flourishing of the Classical period of Ancient Greece, from the Greco-Persian Wars to the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC, which included the Golden Age of Athens, the Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta, the short-lived Spartan and...
As the Roman Republic, and later the Roman Empire, expanded, it came to include people from a variety of cultures, and religions. The worship of an ever increasing number of deities was tolerated and accepted. The government, and the Romans in general, tended to be tolerant towards most religions and religious practices. Some religions were banned for political reasons rather than dogmatic zeal, and other rites which involved human sacrifice were banned. When Christianity became the state church of the Roman Empire, it came to accept that it was the Roman emperor's duty to use secular power to enforce religious unity. Anyone within the church who did not subscribe to catholic Christianity was seen as a threat to the dominance and purity of the one true faith and they saw it as their right to defend this by all means at their disposal. This led to persecution of pagans by the Christian authorities and populace after its institution as the state religion.  Under Roman Paganism   Religious tolerance and intolerance  The Roman Empire typically tolerated other religions insofar as they conformed to Roman notions of what proper religion meant and if their deities could be mapped...
Barthold Georg Niebuhr was a Danish-German statesman, banker, and historian who became Germany's leading historian of Ancient Rome and a founding father of modern scholarly historiography. By 1810 Niebuhr was inspiring German patriotism in students at the University of Berlin by his analysis of Roman economy and government. Niebuhr was a leader of the Romantic era and symbol of German national spirit that emerged after the defeat at Jena. But he was also deeply rooted in the classical spirit of the Age of Enlightenment in his intellectual presuppositions, his use of philological analysis, and his emphasis on both general and particular phenomena in history.  Education  Niebuhr was born in Copenhagen, the son of Carsten Niebuhr, a prominent German geographer resident in that city. His father provided his early education. By 1794 the precocious young Niebuhr had already become an accomplished classical scholar who read several languages. That year he entered the University of Kiel, where he studied law and philosophy. There he formed an important friendship with Madame Hensler, the widowed daughter-in-law of one of the professors, six years older...
Brother-sister incest was a common practice among the Pharaohs of ancient Egypt, both during dynastic and Hellenistic times. Marriages and children between full siblings has been confirmed by genetic testing. Father-daughter incest was also at times accepted during the dynastic period. Sibling marriages among commoners is found regularly in censuses from the Roman era of Egypt. It is also noted as a part of Egyptian culture by Greek and Roman writers. The nature of these marriages are disputed, with some historians arguing that they can be explained by adoption.  Royal families  Brother-sister marriages among the pharaohs date from at least the 11th Dynasty in 2000 BC. The family trees of the pharaohs are complicated, with the exact parentage of many queens uncertain, but many of them include brother-sister and more rarely father-daughter pairings. An example is the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt. Thutmose I's two children Thutmose II and Hatshepsut married each other and produced a child together named Neferure. Genetic testing on Tutankhamun proves that his parents were full siblings, Akhenaten , and the mummy known as The Younger Lady. Father-daughter marriage...
Acqua may refer to:  Places  Acqua Fraggia or Acquafraggia, a short and frequently steep torrente , in the province of Sondrio in Lombardy, north Italy  People  Antonio Acqua , Italian actor of the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s Camillo Acqua , Italian entomologist Robert Acquafresca, Italian footballer Stefano Dall'Acqua, Italian footballer Simone Dell'Acqua, Italian footballer  Aqueducts   Ancient Rome  Aqua Alexandrina, span: Pantano Borghese to the Baths of Alexander on the Campus Martius Aqua Alsietina, built in 2 BC, span: Lake Alsietina, now Lake Martignano, northwest of Rome to the Naumachia of Augustus in Transtiberim Aqua Anio Novus, built in AD 52, span: Anio River, east of Rome to the Caelian Hill Aqua Anio Vetus, built in 272 - 269 BC, span: the Anio River near Vicovaro, east of Rome to the Viminal Hill Aqua Antoniniana, a branch of Aqua Marcia that pipes to the Baths of Caracalla on the Caelian Hill, then to the Aventine Hill and the Quirinal Hill Aqua Appia, completed in 311 B.C., span: the springs 10 miles to the east of Rome to the...
The Plan of Rome is a model, more precisely a relief map, of ancient Rome in the 4th century. Made of varnished plaster , it represents three-fifths of the city at a 1400 scale, forming a puzzle of around one hundred pieces. It was created by Paul Bigot, an architect and winner of the Grand Prix de Rome in 1900. Initially focused on the Circus Maximus, Bigot's work gradually expanded to cover an area of over 70 m2. It has also become a virtual reconstruction project led by the University of Caen since the 1990s. Bigot developed the model as a synthesis of the literary, archaeological, and iconographic knowledge available at the beginning of the 20th century, working on it for four decades. His project followed the tradition of the Rome submissions, where residents of the Villa Medici presented reconstructions of architectural elements of ancient Rome. It also coincided with the profound renewal of knowledge about the city during major works accompanying its transformation into the capital of modern Italy. The Plan of Rome quickly gained recognition as both an artistic masterpiece and a valuable educational tool, with various international events showcasing it to the public...
Atheism is the rejection of an assertion that a deity exists. In its strictest definition, positive atheism is the position that there are absolutely no deities that exist, while negative atheism is the position that there are probably no deities that exist, but does not state that there are none. The English term 'atheist' was used at least as early as the sixteenth century and atheistic ideas and their influence have a longer history. Philosophical atheist thought began to appear in Europe and Asia in the sixth or fifth century BCE. In ancient Greece, playwrights expressed doubt regarding the existence of gods and ancient India had an antireligious philosophical school, Charvaka. Materialistic philosophy was produced by the atomists Leucippus and Democritus in 5th century BCE, who explained the world in terms of the movements of atoms moving in infinite space. The Enlightenment fueled skepticism and secularism against religion in Europe.  Etymology  In early ancient Greek, the adjective theos , from the privative -   'god' meant 'godless'. It was first used as a term of censure roughly meaning 'ungodly' or 'impious'. In the 5th century BCE, the word began to indicate...
Serfdom is a social class in a feudal system, by which an agricultural laborer is bound to work under their lord's estate, and may not leave. This practice, while most prevalent in Medieval Europe has a long history that dates back to the beginnings of human civilization, with helots in the ancient Greek city-state of Sparta, and coloni in the Roman Empire. It persisted and grew through the 13th Century, before beginning to decline during the 14th-16th centuries, due to a growing economy, powerful monarchs, changes in population, and growing numbers of rebellions.  Origins  Social institutions similar to serfdom occurred in the ancient world. The status of the helots in the ancient Greek city-state of Sparta resembled that of medieval serfs. By the 3rd century AD, the Roman Empire faced a labour shortage. Large Roman landowners increasingly relied on Roman freemen, acting as tenant farmers, to provide labour. The status of these tenant farmers, eventually known as coloni, steadily eroded. Because the tax system implemented by Diocletian assessed taxes based both on land and on the inhabitants of that land, it became administratively inconvenient...
The Latins , sometimes known as the Latials or Latians, were an Italic tribe that included the early inhabitants of the city of Rome . From about 1000 BC, the Latins inhabited the small region known to the Romans as Old Latium , the area in the Italian Peninsula between the river Tiber and the promontory of Mount Circeo 100 km southeast of Rome. Following the Roman expansion, the Latins spread into the Latium adiectum, inhabited by Osco-Umbrian peoples. Their language, Latin, belonged to the Italic branch of Indo-European. The Italic peoples are descended from the Urnfield and Tumulus cultures, who spread across Italy during the late Bronze Age. The material culture of the Latins, known as the Latial culture, was a distinctive subset of the proto-Villanovan culture that appeared in parts of the Italian peninsula in the first half of the 12th century BC. Before and after their political unification under Rome in 338 BC, the Latins maintained close cultural and religious relations, including common festivals and religious sanctuaries. The rise of Rome as by far the most populous and powerful Latin state from c. 600 BC led...
In ancient Rome, the plebeians or plebs were the general body of free Roman citizens who were not patricians, as determined by the census, or were in other words commoners. Both classes were hereditary.  Etymology  The precise origins of the group and the term are unclear, but may be related to the Greek, plthos, meaning masses. In Latin, the word plebs is a singular collective noun, and its genitive is plebis. Plebeians were not a monolithic social class.  In ancient Rome  In the annalistic tradition of Livy and Dionysius, the distinction between patricians and plebeians was as old as Rome itself, instituted by Romulus' appointment of the first hundred senators, whose descendants became the patriciate. Modern hypotheses date the distinction anywhere from the regal period to the late fifth century BC. The 19th-century historian Barthold Georg Niebuhr believed plebeians were possibly foreigners immigrating from other parts of Italy. This hypothesis, that plebeians were racially distinct from patricians, however, is not supported by the ancient evidence. Alternatively, the patriciate may have been defined by their monopolisation of hereditary priesthoods that granted ex...
The Ancient City: A Study on the Religion, Laws and Institutions of Greece and Rome , published in 1864, is the seminal book of the French historian Numa Denis Fustel de Coulanges . Taking inspiration from Ren Descartes, and drawing on texts by ancient historians and poets, Fustel investigates the origins of the most archaic institutions in the Greco-Roman world.  Summary  Fustel de Coulanges sees religion and the ancestor cult as the foundation of the institutions of the Greeks and Romans. As part of their domestic religion, each family had their own beliefs, gods, and forms of worship. The rules of gender and family hierarchy, ownership, and inheritance were governed by that cult. Over time, Fustel argued, need forced people to regularize with one another and make them more consistent, and the rules governing the family were transferred to larger units called gens, arriving eventually at the city-state. Therefore, the origin of the city and of private property is religious, as suggested by the practice of lustration, a periodic purification ceremony in connection with the census of all citizens, and by the public banquets in honor of local...
Alastair Sooke is an English art critic, journalist and broadcaster, most notable for reporting and commenting on art for the British media and writing and presenting documentaries on art and art history for BBC television and radio. His BBC documentaries include Modern Masters for BBC One and three three-part series, Treasures of Ancient Rome, Treasures of Ancient Egypt, and Treasures of Ancient Greece, for BBC Four. Sooke is chief art critic at The Daily Telegraph, writing on art and art history, including on the Turner Prize and contemporary art. He is also a regular presenter on The Culture Show.  Biography  Sooke was born in west London in October 1981 and educated at Westminster School, an independent boarding school in Central London, where he was a Queen's Scholar. At the age of fourteen Sooke starred as Kay Harker in a BBC Radio 4 adaptation of John Masefield's children's fantasy novel, The Box of Delights. Sooke won a Westminster Scholarship to Christ Church, Oxford, where he read English language and literature and won the university's Charles Oldham Shakespeare Prize. After graduating with a First, he studied for an M.A. at the Courtauld Institute of Art...
Marcus Antonius , commonly known in English as Mark Antony, was a Roman politician and general who played a critical role in the transformation of the Roman Republic from a constitutional republic into the autocratic Roman Empire. Antony was a relative and supporter of Julius Caesar, and he served as one of his generals during the conquest of Gaul and Caesar's civil war. Antony was appointed administrator of Italy while Caesar eliminated political opponents in Greece, North Africa, and Spain. After Caesar's assassination in 44 BC, Antony joined forces with Lepidus, another of Caesar's generals, and Octavian, Caesar's great-nephew and adopted son, forming a three-man oligarchy known to historians as the Second Triumvirate. The Triumvirs defeated Caesar's killers, the Liberatores, at the Battle of Philippi in 42 BC, and divided the government of the Republic among themselves. Antony was assigned Rome's eastern provinces, including the client kingdom of Egypt, then ruled by Cleopatra VII, and was given the command in Rome's war against Parthia. Relations among the triumvirs were strained as the various members sought greater political power. Civil war...
Lindsey Davis is an English historical novelist, best known as the author of the Falco series of historical crime stories set in ancient Rome and its empire. She has received the Cartier Diamond Dagger award.  Life and career  Davis was born in Birmingham. After taking a degree in English literature at Oxford University , she became a civil servant for 13 years. When a romantic novel she had written was runner up for the 1985 Georgette Heyer Historical Novel Prize, she moved toward a career in writing, at first creating romantic serials for the UK women's magazine Woman's Realm. One of these, The Bride from Bithynia, was published in her 2023 collection Voices of Rome. Her dedication of the book Rebels and Traitors reads: For Richard  dearest and closest of friends  your favourite book  in memory, and the author's website relates: I am still getting used to life without my dear Richard. For those of you who haven't seen this before, he died in October . The author says in her publisher's newsletter: The greatest recommendation I can give is that Richard, its first reader, thought it wonderful. He devoured chunks, demanding 'Bring...
The legacy of the Roman Empire has been varied and significant. The Roman Empire, built upon the legacy of other cultures, has had long-lasting influence with broad geographical reach on a great range of cultural aspects, including state institutions, law, values, religious beliefs, technological advances, engineering, and language. This legacy survived the demise of the empire 5th century AD in the West, and 15th century AD in the East and went on to shape other civilisations, a process which continues. Rome was the civitas reflected in the etymology of the word civilisation and connected with the actual western civilisation on which subsequent cultures built is the Latin language of ancient Rome, epitomized by the Classical Latin used in Latin literature, which evolved during the Middle Ages and remains in use in the Roman Catholic Church as Ecclesiastical Latin. Vulgar Latin, the common tongue used for regular social interactions, evolved simultaneously into Romance languages that still exist today, such as Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, and Romanian. Although the Western Roman Empire fell in the 5th century AD, the Eastern Roman Empire continued until its conquest...
A Topographical Dictionary of Ancient Rome is a reference work written by Samuel Ball Platner . The first edition was published in 1904 the second edition was published in 1911 . The book was completed by Thomas Ashby after Platner's death and published in 1929 by Oxford University Press. Referred to as 'Platner and Ashby', the volume describes the ancient monuments and buildings in the city of Rome, although by and large only if they belong to the classical period. It covers both remains that are still extant and buildings of which not a trace remained, and collates source documents for each. This volume was, for fifty or sixty years, the standard reference in the field of Roman topography, having superseded Rodolfo Lanciani's Forma Urbis Romae . Platner and Ashby has since itself been superseded by a reworking, L. Richardson, Jr.'s A New Topographical Dictionary of Ancient Rome, but mostly by the new standard, a completely new work, Margareta Steinby's Lexicon Topographicum Urbis Romae .  See also  Topography of ancient Rome List of ancient monuments in Rome History of Rome...
The March on Rome of 88 BC was a coup d'tat by the consul of the Roman Republic Lucius Cornelius Sulla, who seized power against his enemies Marius and Sulpicius, after they had ousted him from Rome. It was the first time in Roman history that a general ordered his army to march against the Republic. In 88 BC, Sulla was elected consul and given the command of the war against the king of Pontus Mithridates, who had recently invaded the Roman province of Asia. The same year, Sulla and his colleague Quintus Pompeius Rufus opposed the attempt of the tribune of the plebs Publius Sulpicius to enrol the Italians who received the Roman citizenship at the end of the Social War . To bypass the consuls' opposition, Sulpicius sought the support of the popular Gaius Marius, who had already been consul six times. Marius demanded for his help that Sulpicius pass a law transferring Sulla's command to him. Using armed gangs to intimidate the tribal assembly, Sulpicius removed Pompeius' consulship and forced Sulla to flee from Rome, after which he enrolled the Italians and gave the Mithridatic command to Marius. Meanwhile, Sulla had returned to the legions he had assembled for the expedition...
In ancient Rome, the popa were individuals who helped perform the act of killing sacrificial animals as part of religious ceremonies. They are portrayed, in Roman depictions of sacrificial rites, as wielding the hammer or axe utilized to strike the animal.  Social status  Popae were evidently accorded little respect in ancient Roman society, at least from the upper classes. Cicero, a 1st-century BCE Roman statesman, in his speech Pro Milone, expresses doubt that the testimony of a popa named Licinius should be trusted in court. Persius, a 1st-century CE Roman satirist, asks why he must endure hunger whilst a popa can have a fat belly, which incidentally also showcases that popae had acquired a certain level of prosperity as a social class. Similarly, Propertius, 1st-century BCE elegiac poet, seemingly denigrates the financial gains of popae, writing that they bustle to win fresh profits. Suetonius, a 1st-century CE Roman historian, records an anecdote wherein the emperor Caligula attends a sacrificial ceremony in the garb of a popa, which-in the context of this group's low social status-perhaps serves to emphasize the willingness of the emperor to act in a manner unbecoming...
A mortuary cult also called a funerary cult or death cult is a ceremonial and religious form of a cult fostered over a certain duration of time, often lasting for generations or even dynasties. It concerns deceased people kept in the memories of their bereaved, mostly family members or loyal servants.  Forms of mortuary cults  The most common form of a mortuary cult is a tomb with gravestone which is visited by the bereaved frequently. A further, well known, form of a mortuary cult is a shrine with a picture or bust of the deceased, which is also visited and cared frequently. The Japanese Shint religion is well known for its memorial shrines erected for mortuary cults. Another, more unusual, form of mortuary cult is an urn with ash, deposed at the home of the yet-living bereaved. Especially ancient cultures are known for their mortuary cults, because they left behind extraordinary memorials, which were used for mortuary cults during the epochs in which they were created.  Ancient Egypt  A famous form of mortuary cults is handed down by the Ancient Egyptians. The Egyptians fostered a very intense form of death cult because they were of the belief that the soul ...
The Roman Senate was the highest and constituting assembly of ancient Rome and its aristocracy. With different powers throughout its existence, it lasted from the first days of the city of Rome as the Senate of the Roman Kingdom, to the Senate of the Roman Republic and Senate of the Roman Empire and eventually the Byzantine Senate of the Eastern Roman Empire, existing well into the post-classical era and Middle Ages. During the days of the Roman Kingdom, the Senate was generally little more than an advisory council to the king. However, as Rome was an electoral monarchy, the Senate also elected new Roman kings. The last king of Rome, Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, was overthrown following a coup d'tat led by Lucius Junius Brutus, who founded the Roman Republic. During the early Republic, the Senate was politically weak, while the various executive Roman magistrates who appointed the senators for life were quite powerful. Since the transition from monarchy to constitutional rule was most likely gradual, it took several generations before the Senate was able to assert itself over the executive...
The plebeian council was one of the popular assemblies of ancient Rome. In the standard conception of the classical republican constitution, it was essentially identical to the tribal assembly except that patricians were excluded and it was presided over mainly by plebeian tribunes. The main legislative assembly in the republic, it also elected the plebeian magistrates and heard some judicial matters. It is the modern convention to refer to an assembly of the people, organised by tribe and under the presidency of a plebeian tribune, as a concilium plebis. This was, however, not necessarily the case. Ancient Romans did refer to such assemblies also as comitia tributa, suggesting that the common distinction between comitia and concilium as meetings of the whole and a part of the people respectively may be erroneous modern constructions. The Romans believed that the council emerged from the Conflict of the Orders, created during a first secession of the plebs traditionally dated to 494 BC. Prior to 471, is not clear how the council was organised. It may have been organised by curiae, if ancient sources are to be believed, but it is more...
The history of mathematics deals with the origin of discoveries in mathematics and the mathematical methods and notation of the past. Before the modern age and worldwide spread of knowledge, written examples of new mathematical developments have come to light only in a few locales. From 3000 BC the Mesopotamian states of Sumer, Akkad and Assyria, followed closely by Ancient Egypt and the Levantine state of Ebla began using arithmetic, algebra and geometry for taxation, commerce, trade, and in astronomy, to record time and formulate calendars. The earliest mathematical texts available are from Mesopotamia and Egypt - Plimpton 322 , the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus and the Moscow Mathematical Papyrus . All these texts mention the so-called Pythagorean triples, so, by inference, the Pythagorean theorem seems to be the most ancient and widespread mathematical development, after basic arithmetic and geometry. The study of mathematics as a demonstrative discipline began in the 6th century BC with the Pythagoreans, who coined the term mathematics from the ancient Greek  , meaning subject of instruction...
Intersex, in humans and other animals, describes variations in sex characteristics including chromosomes, gonads, sex hormones, or genitals that, according to the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, that do not fit typical definitions for male or female bodies. Intersex people were historically termed hermaphrodites, congenital eunuchs, among other terms. Such terms have fallen out of favor, now considered to be misleading, discriminatory, and stigmatizing. Intersexphobia or interphobia is the historical and systemic discrimination, violence against, and negative perception of people with intersex traits. Intersex people have been treated in different ways by different cultures. Whether or not they were socially tolerated or accepted by any particular culture, the existence of intersex people was known to many ancient and pre-modern cultures and legal systems, and numerous historical accounts exist.  Ancient history   Sumer  A Sumerian creation myth from more than 4,000 years ago has Ninmah, a mother goddess, fashioning humanity out of clay. She boasts that she will determine the fate - good or bad - for all she fashions: Enki answered Ninmah: I will...
The Roman deities most widely known today are those the Romans identified with Greek counterparts, integrating Greek myths, iconography, and sometimes religious practices into Roman culture, including Latin literature, Roman art, and religious life as it was experienced throughout the Roman Empire. Many of the Romans' own gods remain obscure, known only by name and sometimes function, through inscriptions and texts that are often fragmentary. This is particularly true of those gods belonging to the archaic religion of the Romans dating back to the era of kings, the so-called religion of Numa, which was perpetuated or revived over the centuries. Some archaic deities have Italic or Etruscan counterparts, as identified both by ancient sources and by modern scholars. Throughout the Empire, the deities of peoples in the provinces were given new theological interpretations in light of functions or attributes they shared with Roman deities. A survey of theological groups as constructed by the Romans themselves is followed by an extensive alphabetical list concluding with examples of common epithets shared by multiple divinities.  Collectives  Even in invocations, which generally required...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 594 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
JavaScript is a programming language and core technology of the Web, alongside HTML and CSS. Created by Brendan Eich in 1995, it is maintained by Ecma International's TC39 technical committee, with related Web APIs maintained by W3C and WHATWG. As of 2025, JavaScript is the most widely used programming language on GitHub. However, TypeScript, which is a version of JavaScript that is strict about types and is statically typed, overtook JavaScript on GitHub by August 2025. Web browsers have a dedicated JavaScript engine that executes the client code. These engines are also utilized in some servers and a variety of apps. The most popular runtime system for non-browser usage is Node.js. JavaScript is a high-level, often just-in-time-compiled language that conforms to the ECMAScript standard. It has dynamic typing, prototype-based object-orientation, and first-class functions. It is multi-paradigm, supporting event-driven, functional, and imperative programming styles. It has application programming interfaces for working with text, dates, regular expressions, standard data structures, and the Document Object Model . The ECMAScript standard does not include any inputoutput...
In web development, a webhook is a method of augmenting or altering the behavior of a web page or web application with custom callbacks. These callbacks may be maintained, modified, and managed by third-party users who need not be affiliated with the originating website or application. In 2007, Jeff Lindsay coined the term webhook from the computer programming term hook.  Function  Webhooks are user-defined HTTP callbacks. They are usually triggered by some event, such as pushing code to a repository, a purchase, a comment being posted to a blog and many more use cases. When that event occurs, the source site makes an HTTP request to the URL configured for the webhook. Users can configure them to cause events on one site to invoke behavior on another. Common uses are to trigger builds with continuous integration systems or to notify bug tracking systems. Because webhooks use HTTP, they can be integrated into web services without adding new infrastructure. As of 2025, half of surveyed API teams reported using webhooks, alongside WebSockets and GraphQL, as a complement to REST.  Authenticating the webhook notification  When the client the originating website or application...
Inter is a free and open-source neo-grotesque sans-serif typeface designed by Rasmus Andersson. Released in 2017, Inter was created to improve on-screen readability for user interface text, especially at small sizes. The typeface has since become widely used in applications and websites. Inter includes a wide range of OpenType features, support for over 140 languages, and is available as a variable font.  Design characteristics  Inter was created during Andersson's tenure at Figma to address perceived limitations in existing typefaces like Roboto. The typeface is characterized by a tall x-height, open apertures, which make it optimized for readability on screens and at small text sizes. The variable font includes an optical size axis allowing it to adapt for readability at all font sizes, and a weight axis allowing the weight to be adjusted smoothly from Thin to Black without the need for additional font files. Inter was initially metrically compatible with Roboto, but by 2018, it adopted its own vertical metrics and unique design features. The italics in Inter are true italics , and there is extensive support for Open Type features such as...
Mermaid is an open-source JavaScript-based diagramming and charting software that generates diagrams from text-based descriptions. Created by Knut Sveidqvist in 2014, the project originated from a need to simplify diagram creation in documentation workflows after experiencing issues with proprietary software file formats.  Features  Mermaid allows users to create various types of diagrams using a Markdown-like syntax, including: Flowcharts Sequence diagrams Class diagrams State diagrams Gantt charts Entity-relationship diagrams The software provides both text-based and visual editing interfaces, allowing users to switch between the two modes. Users can create diagrams through the Mermaid Live Editor, a web-based tool that provides real-time preview capabilities without requiring local installation.  History  Mermaid.js was created in 2014 by Swedish software architect Knut Sveidqvist to keep diagrams aligned with software documentation. Sveidqvist stated that the idea emerged after losing a Microsoft Visio file, which led him to pursue a text-based, Markdown-centric approach. The project name was inspired by The Little Mermaid, which his children were watching at the time....
Elasticsearch is a source-available search engine developed by Elastic. It is based on Apache Lucene and provides a distributed, multitenant-capable full-text search engine with an HTTP web interface and schema-free JSON documents. Official clients are available in Java, C, PHP, Python, Ruby, and other languages. According to the DB-Engines ranking, Elasticsearch is the most popular enterprise search engine. Elasticsearch is distributed and uses JSON documents stored in indices divided into shards, each of which may have replicas distributed across cluster nodes. It supports full-text search, faceted search, real-time search, and multitenancy. The software is developed alongside Logstash, Kibana, and Beats as part of the Elastic Stack .  History  Shay Banon created the precursor to Elasticsearch, called Compass, in 2004. Developing a third version of Compass, he concluded that a full rewrite was necessary to build a scalable, distributed search solution using JSON over HTTP as a common interface. He released the first version of Elasticsearch in February 2010. Elastic NV was founded in 2012 to provide commercial services and products around Elasticsearch...
Underscore.js is a JavaScript library which provides utility functions for common programming tasks. It is comparable to features provided by Prototype.js and the Ruby language, but opts for a functional programming design instead of extending object prototypes. The documentation refers to Underscore.js as the tie to go along with jQuery's tux, and Backbone.js' suspenders. Underscore.js was created by Jeremy Ashkenas, who is also known for Backbone.js and CoffeeScript.  History  Jeremy Ashkenas created Underscore by the end of 2009 as a spin-off from the DocumentCloud project, together with Backbone.js. It was one of the earliest libraries for JavaScript to provide general functional programming utilities, taking inspiration from Prototype.js, Oliver Steele's Functional JavaScript, and John Resig's Micro-Templating. In 2012, John-David Dalton created a fork of Underscore, named Lo-Dash . Lo-Dash was initially promoted as a drop-in alternative for Underscore with consistency, customization, performance,  extras. Nevertheless, Lodash already departed from the original Underscore interface at an early stage and started making more drastic changes with the 3.0.0 release...
Levent Hasan Ali Alpge is an American and Turkish mathematician. He is known for his work in number theory and arithmetic statistics. He was a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows and later joined the artificial-intelligence company Anthropic as a member of the technical staff. In 2025, he and collaborators gave a second proof that Hilbert's tenth problem has a negative answer over the ring of integers of every algebraic number field, a result originally established by Koymans and Pagano in 2024. On July 19, 2026, Alpge presented an explicit counterexample to the Jacobian conjecture in three-dimensional space, stating that it was discovered using the Claude Fable 5 AI model. He announced a counterexample to the Carathodory conjecture on August 19, 2026 using the model. Four days later, he announced a positive answer to Hopf's problem concerning the existence of a complex structure on a 6-dimensional sphere using AI tools. His work on Navier-Stokes existence and smoothness with Tristan Buckmaster was cited by OpenAI in their solution to the Millennium Prize Problem on September 8, 2026.  Early life and education  Alpge was born on April 1, 1992...
The global COVID-19 pandemic , caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 , began with an outbreak in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. It spread to other parts of Asia and then worldwide in early 2020. The World Health Organization declared the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern on 30 January 2020 and assessed it as having become a pandemic on 11 March. The WHO declared that the public health emergency caused by COVID-19 had ended in May 2023, while noting that COVID-19 continued to be a global health threat. COVID-19 symptoms range from asymptomatic to deadly, but most commonly include fever, sore throat, nocturnal cough, and fatigue. Transmission of the virus is often through airborne particles. Mutations have produced many strains with varying degrees of infectivity and virulence. COVID-19 vaccines were developed rapidly and deployed to the general public beginning in December 2020, made available through government and international programmes such as COVA, aiming to provide vaccine equity. Treatments include novel antiviral drugs and symptom control. Common mitigation...
Pi is an open-source artificial intelligence coding agent and agent harness developed by Earendil Works. It operates primarily through a terminal user interface and allows large language models to read, write, and modify source code and execute shell commands. Pi is designed around a small extensible core and can be customized using TypeScript extensions, skills, prompt templates, themes, and packages.  History  Pi was created by software developer Mario Zechner and was initially distributed through the pi-mono repository under his badlogic account. The project was originally published through npm packages using the mariozechner namespace. In May 2026, the project was transferred to Earendil Works. Its source repository moved to the earendil-works organization and its npm packages were renamed under the earendil-works namespace, beginning with version 0.74.0.  Features  Pi provides an interactive terminal interface through which an AI model can inspect a software project and use built-in tools for reading, writing, and editing files and executing shell commands. It supports models from multiple providers, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Amazon Web Services, and OpenRouter...
Invidious is a free and open-source alternative frontend to YouTube. It is available as a Docker container, or from the GitHub master branch. It is intended to be used as a lightweight and privacy-respecting alternative to the official YouTube website. Many privacy preserving redirecting software as well as YouTube clients use Invidious instances. Invidious does not use the official YouTube API but scrapes the website for video and metadata such as likes and views. This is done intentionally to decrease the amount of data shared with Google, but YouTube can still see a user's IP address. The web-scraping tool is called the Invidious Developer API. It is also partially used in the free and open-source app, Yattee.  History  In 2020, Omar Roth stated that he would be stepping down from the project and shutting down the main instance at invidio.us. However, the project still continues and unofficial instances of the service still exist. In June 2023, Invidious received a take-down order from YouTube. The cease and desist notice followed recent experiments by YouTube of blocking non-premium users who use an ad-blocking web browser. The Invidious developers decided to ignore the...
GoodbyeDPI is a free and open-source software tool for bypassing deep packet inspection systems and Internet censorship. It was created by Russian developer ValdikSS in 2016 and is distributed under the Apache License via GitHub.  History  GoodbyeDPI was first released in 2016 as an experimental tool to study DPI-based filtering in Russia. In 2024, the program gained wide popularity after the deliberate throttling of YouTube in Russia. Independent outlets reported it as one of the main tools used to circumvent restrictions.  Technical overview  GoodbyeDPI uses the WinDivert library to intercept and modify network traffic at the Windows driver level. It manipulates packets in ways that make DPI systems unable to properly recognize them, allowing access to blocked resources. Main techniques include: fragmentation of TCP packets modification of HTTP headers SNI obfuscation in TLS sessions insertion of non-standard TCP flags.  Usage  The program is distributed as a Windows console utility and configured via command-line parameters. Media reports and users describe it as effective for bypassing YouTube throttling and other restrictions. GoodbyeDPI has also been reported...
Ghidra is a free and open source reverse engineering tool developed by the National Security Agency of the United States. The binaries were released at the RSA Conference in March 2019 the source code was published one month later on GitHub. The software is written in Java using the Swing framework for the GUI. The decompiler component is written in C, and is therefore usable in a stand-alone form. Scripts to perform automated analysis with Ghidra can be written in Java or Python current versions support Python through PyGhidra, while Jython is available as an optional extension. Plugins adding new features to Ghidra itself can be developed using a Java-based extension framework. Many security researchers consider Ghidra to be a viable open source alternative to the proprietary IDA Pro.  History  Ghidra's existence was originally revealed to the public via Vault 7 in March 2017, but the software itself remained unavailable until its official declassification and release two years later. Some comments in its source code indicate that it existed as early as 1999. In June 2019, coreboot began to use Ghidra for its reverse engineering efforts on firmware-specific...
LightDM is a free and open-source  display manager that aims to be lightweight, fast, extensible and multi-desktop. It can use various front-ends to draw the user interface, also called Greeters. It also supports Wayland. LightDM is the default display manager for Edubuntu, ubuntu and Mythbuntu since the 11.10 release, for Lubuntu since the 12.04 release until 16.10, for Kubuntu beginning with 12.10 until 15.04 for Linux Mint and Antergos.  Features  Features include: Codebase with very few dependencies Supports different display technologies Supports remote login incoming - DMCP, VNC, outgoing - DMCP, pluggable Comprehensive test suite Standards-compliance Well-defined interface between the server and user interface Cross-desktop Well-defined greeter API allowing multiple GUIs Support for all display manager use cases, with plug-ins where appropriate LightDM has a simpler code base than GDM and does not load any GNOME libraries to work, but at the cost of some features that the user may or may not need.  Available greeters   See also  SDDM DM GNOME Display...
youtube-dl is a free and open-source software tool for downloading video and audio from YouTube and over 1,000 other video hosting websites. It supports diverse file formats, quality settings, and platforms including Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux. It is released under the Unlicense software license. As of September 2021, youtube-dl is one of the most starred projects on GitHub, with over 100,000 stars. According to libraries.io, 308 other packages and 1,430 repositories depend on it. Numerous forks of the project exist, among which the community-maintained fork yt-dlp is notable for active development and enhanced functionality. yt-dlp builds upon youtube-dl's core features by offering improvements such as faster multi-threaded downloads, more advanced format selection and subtitle embedding support. Due to its active maintenance and expanded capabilities, yt-dlp has been widely adopted and has replaced youtube-dl in several major Linux distributions, notably beginning with Ubuntu 22.04. Both tools have faced legal challenges, including takedown notices under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act , as well as controversies surrounding the downloading of copyrighted content...
Thomas Preston-Werner is an American software developer and billionaire entrepreneur. He is an active contributor within the free and open-source software community, most prominently in the San Francisco Bay Area, where he lives. He is best known as a co-founder and former CEO of GitHub, a web-based Git repository hosting service, which he co-founded in 2008 with Chris Wanstrath and P. J. Hyett. He resigned from GitHub in 2014 when an internal investigation concluded that he and his wife harassed an employee. Preston-Werner is also the creator of the avatar service Gravatar, the TOML configuration file format, the static site generator software Jekyll, and the Semantic Versioning Specification . As of 2023, he and his wife have committed to The Giving Pledge-a promise to give away or donate a majority of their wealth to philanthropic causes.  Early life  Preston-Werner grew up in Dubuque, Iowa. His father died when he was a child. His mother was a teacher and his stepfather was an engineer. He graduated from high school at Dubuque Senior High School and attended Harvey Mudd College in Claremont, California for 2 years before dropping out to pursue other...
LZ4 is a lossless data compression algorithm optimized for fast compression and decompression. It belongs to the LZ77 family of byte-oriented compression schemes.  Features  The LZ4 algorithm provides a good trade-off between speed and compression ratio. Typically, it has a smaller compression ratio than the similar LZO algorithm, which in turn is worse than algorithms like DEFLATE. However, LZ4 compression speed is similar to LZO and several times faster than DEFLATE, while decompression speed is significantly faster than LZO.  Design  LZ4 only uses a dictionary-matching stage and, unlike other common compression algorithms, does not combine it with an entropy coding stage . The LZ4 algorithm represents the data as a series of sequences. Each sequence begins with a one-byte token that is broken into two 4-bit fields. The first field represents the number of literal bytes that are to be copied to the output. The second field represents the number of bytes to copy from the already decoded output buffer with 0 representing the minimum match length of 4 bytes. A value of 15 in either of the bitfields indicates that the length...
This is a comparison of notable web frameworks, software used to build and deploy web applications. This article focuses on frameworks used for building the backend.  General  Basic information about each framework. Systems listed on a light purple background are no longer in active development.  ASP.NET   C   ColdFusion Markup Language   Elixir   Haskell   Java   JavaScript   Perl   PHP   Python   Ruby   Scala   Others   Comparison of features   C   ColdFusion Markup Language   Java   JavaScript   Perl   PHP   Python   Ruby   Others   See also  Lists of frameworks for frontend development: Comparison of JavaScript-based web frameworks CSS framework Other: Common Gateway Interface, used before web frameworks Comparison of shopping cart software Content management system Dynamic web page Java view technologies and frameworks List of content management systems List of rich web application frameworks List of web service frameworks  References 
DuckDuckGo is an American software company founded by Gabriel Weinberg in 2008 that focuses on Internet privacy. Its flagship product is a search engine named DuckDuckGo. Its later products include browser extensions and a custom DuckDuckGo web browser. Headquartered in Paoli, Pennsylvania, DuckDuckGo is a privately held company with about 335 employees. The company's name alludes to the children's game duck, duck, goose.  History   Early years  Weinberg got the idea to improve the search experience in a 2007 stained glass class. He tried some search startups that failed before launching DuckDuckGo in 2008. Weinberg is an entrepreneur who previously launched Names Database, a now defunct social network. Self-funded by Weinberg until October 2011, DuckDuckGo's series A round was led by Union Square Ventures. DuckDuckGo is built primarily upon search APIs from various vendors. As a result, TechCrunch called the service a hybrid search engine. In 2010, DuckDuckGo began using privacy to differentiate itself from its competitors. Linux Mint and the Midori web browser had switched to DuckDuckGo as their default search engine by 2011. The company registered the domain name ddg.gg...
The Jacksonville Consolidation was the city-county consolidation of the governments of the City of Jacksonville and Duval County, Florida. It was effected on October 1, 1968.  Background  In 1934, the Florida Constitution was amended to give the Florida Legislature the power to establish, alter or abolish, a Municipal corporation to be known as the City of Jacksonville, extending territorially throughout the present limits of Duval County, but for many years thereafter, the Legislature did not exercise the power. Through the 1960s, Jacksonville, like many other large cities in the US, suffered from the effects of urban sprawl, with the city losing tax base to new residential and business development in the suburbs, which also drew out jobs. Both the city and county suffered corruption scandals, following virtual one-party rule by Democrats since the turn of the 20th century, when the state legislature had disenfranchised most African Americans and effectively hollowed out the Republican Party, with which most blacks had been allied since they were granted the franchise as freedmen following the Civil War. In the 1960s, a grand jury indicted 11 Jacksonville and Duval County officials...
Indianola is the third studio album by American country music artist Steve Azar. His first studio album since Waitin' on Joe from six years previous, it was initially to have been released in April 2006 on Midas Records Nashville, the same year that its lead-off single You Don't Know a Thing charted at 49 on the Billboard country charts. The album was not released until May 2008, on Azar's own Dang Records label. The follow-up single I Won't Let You Lead Me Down failed to chart in 2008 while the third single, You're My Life, debuted at 57 on the Hot Country Songs chart in January 2009 becoming his first chart single in 3 years. The song Crowded was co-written by former Trick Pony member Ira Dean.  Track listing  Crowded - 3:14 You Don't Know a Thing - 4:04 You're My Life - 4:09 Still Tryin' to Find My Way Around -3:43 Empty Spaces - 4:34 What's Wrong with Right Now - 3:36 The River's Workin' - 6:02 I Won't Let You Lead Me Down - 3:55 The Coach Azar, Coty, A. J. Masters...
The 2015 Open de Rennes was a professional tennis tournament played on hard courts. It was the tenth edition of the tournament which was part of the 2015 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Rennes, France between 12 and 18 October 2015.  Singles main-draw entrants   Seeds  1 Rankings are as of October 5, 2015  Other entrants  The following players received wildcards into Enzo Couacaud Maxime Janvier Alexandre Sidorenko Maxime Teixeira The following players entered the singles main draw as alternates: Jonathan Eysseric Artem Smirnov The following players received entry from the qualifying draw: Romain Barbosa Jeremy Jahn Romain Jouan James Marsalek The following player entered as a lucky loser: Sebastien Boltz  Champions   Singles  Malek Jaziri def. Igor Sijsling, 5-7, 7-5, 6-4.  Doubles  Andrea Arnaboldi  Antonio ani def. Wesley Koolhof  Matw Middelkoop, 6-4, 2-6,  References   External links  Official Website
Stephen James Challacombe is professor of oral medicine at King's College in London, best known for research in oromucosal immunology and for developing the Challacombe scale for measuring the extent of dryness of the mouth. He led the team that laid out research challenges of global health inequalities and oral health, particularly relating to the oral manifestations of HIV. Challacombe was the Martin Rushton Professor of Oral Medicine at King's College, London and the University of London, a consultant in diagnostic microbiology and immunology to Guys  St Thomas Hospitals, and Dean for external affairs at King's College London Health Schools. He has been an author, co-author, editor and co-editor of a number of publications and a recipient of several awards and fellowships. Medical societies of which he has been president include the International Association for Dental Research, British Society for Oral and Dental Research, European Association of Oral Medicine and the Hunterian Society, and the world's oldest rugby club, Guy's Hospital RFC.  Early life  Stephen Challacombe was born in April 1946. He attended Culford School, where he played sports including...
Daniel Michael Gakeler is an American former Major League Baseball pitcher. Although he spent eleven seasons in the minor league organizations of three teams, he would spend just one season on a big league roster for the Detroit Tigers in 1991. Gakeler attended Rancocas Valley Regional High School in Mount Holly, New Jersey.  References   External links  Career statistics from MLB  ESPN  Baseball Reference  Fangraphs  Retrosheet  Baseball Almanac Baseball Almanac
Daniel Valente Dantas is a Brazilian banker and businessman, founder of the Banco Opportunity, an institution specialized in asset management. Dantas holds a degree in Electrical Engineering from UFBA and a postgraduate degree in Economics from FGV. Later, he obtained a master's degree and a doctorate at FGV and completed post-doctorate studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the United States. After years, in February 2012, Daniel Dantas and 11 other individuals were acquitted of the charges related to the Operation Chacal. The decision was issued by Judge Adriana Freisleben de Zanetti of the 5th Federal Criminal Court of So Paulo. Besides Operation Chacal, Dantas was involved in other investigations, such as the Operation Satiagraha, which was later annulled by the Superior Court of Justice in 2011, a decision upheld by the Supreme Federal Court in 2015. Currently, Daniel Dantas continues to operate in the financial market through Opportunity. In addition to his financial activities, Dantas is one of the largest agricultural landowners in Brazil, controlling companies in the oil, mining, biofuels, and agribusiness sectors...
Psychedelic pop is a genre of pop music that contains musical characteristics associated with psychedelic music. Developing in the mid-to-late 1960s, elements included trippy features such as fuzz guitars, tape manipulation, backwards recording, sitars, and Beach Boys-style harmonies, wedded to melodic songs with tight song structures. The style lasted into the early 1970s. It has seen revivals in subsequent decades by neo-psychedelic artists.  Characteristics  According to AllMusic, psychedelic pop was not too freaky, but also not very bubblegum either. It appropriated the effects associated with straight psychedelic music, applying their innovations to concise pop songs. The music was occasionally confined to the studio, but there existed more organic exceptions whose psychedelia was bright and melodic. AllMusic adds: What's is that some psychedelic pop is more interesting than average psychedelia, since it had weird, occasionally awkward blends of psychedelia and pop conventions - the Neon Philharmonic's 1969 album The Moth Confesses is a prime example of this.  Notable works  1966 Pet Sounds by the Beach Boys - The album came...
Pierre Pinson is a French applied mathematician known for his work on forecasting, optimisation and management science for energy systems, e.g., including probabilistic forecasting, participation of renewable energy generation in electricity markets, market-based coordination of energy systems, peer-to-peer energy markets, as well as data markets. He is a professor at the Technical University of Denmark and has been Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Forecasting from 2019 onwards. Pierre Pinson grew up near Poitiers, France and moved to Toulouse at the age of 17. He studied applied mathematics at the Institut National des Sciences Appliques, graduating with an MSc in applied mathematics in 2002. He then moved to Sophia Antipolis, France to complete a PhD with the Ecole des Mines de Paris in 2006, with a doctoral dissertation, Pinson P. Estimation of the uncertainty in wind power forecasting Doctoral dissertation, cole Nationale Suprieure des Mines de Paris. That year, he moved to Denmark to start with the Technical University of Denmark. After a period with the Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Sciences, he was a professor with...
igo Vlez de Guevara , 8th Count of Oate, was a Spanish political figure.  Biography  He was the son of igo Vlez de Guevara and Catalina Vlez, 5th Countess of Oate. His younger brother was Beltrn, Viceroy of Sardinia. He was Spanish ambassador in London and Rome.He played an important role in crushing the Neapolitan revolt of 1647 led by Masaniello. Oate was the eventual vanquisher of the Neapolitan Republic and commissioned the Fontana della Sellaria to commemorate his victory. He later served as viceroy of the Kingdom of Naples , where he repulsed a French attack during the Franco-Spanish War .At his return in Spain he was made State Councilor and received the title of Marqus de Guevara. He married Antonia Manrique de la Cerda and had two daughters: Catalina, first married her uncle Beltrn Vlez Ladrn de Guevara and then Ramiro Nez de Guzmn, Duke of Medina de las Torres and viceroy of Naples Mariana, married Juan Domingo Ramrez de Arellano.  External links  Real Academia de la Historia Linaje, poder y cultura : el gobierno de igo Vlez de Guevara, VIII Conde...
North Carolina's 40th Senate district is one of 50 districts in the North Carolina Senate. It has been represented by Democrat Joyce Waddell since 2015.  Geography  Since 1993, the district has covered part of Mecklenburg County. The district overlaps with the 99th, 100th, 102nd, 104th, and 112th state house districts.  District officeholders since 1993   Election results   2024   2022   2020   2018   2016   2014   2012   2010   2008   2006   2004   2002   2000   References 
John Rote was an American field hockey player. Originally from the Netherlands, he was educated at Wadham College in Oxford. Rote later moved to the United States and was selected for the United States men's national field hockey team that contested the men's tournament at the 1956 Summer Olympics. Living for a period in Connecticut, he was active politically and was a publicity director for Connecticut Citizens for Eisenhower, a group which advocated for Dwight D. Eisenhower during the 1956 United States presidential election in Connecticut. From 1957 to 1963, Rote was chairperson of The Privateers, an organization which originated with the 1956 US Olympic field hockey team and sought to develop the sport worldwide.  References   External links  John Rote at Olympics.com John Rote at Olympedia Obituary - John Rote - March 24, 1928 to February 13, 2017 at dignitymemorial.com
Venhar is a village in Sohr and Firuzan Rural District of Pir Bakran District in Falavarjan County, Isfahan province, Iran.  Demographics   Population  At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 920 in 257 households. The following census in 2011 counted 993 people in 305 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 971 people in 307 households.  See also  Iran portal  Notes   References 
John Gwynn was an English architect and civil engineer, who became one of the founder members of the Royal Academy in 1768. He advocated greater control over planning in London, for which he produced detailed suggestions. His buildings include Magdalen Bridge and the Covered Market in Oxford, and several bridges over the River Severn.  Life  Gwynn was born and died in Shrewsbury, Shropshire. He worked initially as a carpenter, but then decided to practice as a architect and town planner, moving to London, where he became a friend of Samuel Johnson. In 1749, when Sir Christopher Wren's drawings were sold, Gwynn obtained Wren's plan for the rebuilding of the City of London, and published it, adding some comments of his own. Seventeen years later, in 1766, he published London and Westminster Improved, It was passed in June of the same year. in which he criticised the loose control over building in the West End, saying that the finest part of town is left to ignorant and capricious persons, and called for development to be controlled by a general plan. He made more than a hundred suggestions for improvements to the capital...
Act to Stop the Decline Italian: Fare per Fermare il Declino, Fare or FFD was a liberal political party in Italy, founded in 2012 as Stop the Decline . Oscar Giannino and Michele Boldrin have been its main leaders.  History  FFD was launched in July 2012 as a spinoff of a cultural movement, Fermare il Declino initiated by a group of seven economists with an open letter published in Italy's major newspapers: Oscar Giannino, Michele Boldrin, Sandro Brusco, Alessandro De Nicola, Andrea Moro, Carlo Stagnaro and Luigi Zingales. The manifesto of the association was signed by 240 personalities and, as of May 2013, had attracted more than 70,000 signatures. The core goals of FFD included the reduction of the national debt by 20 of GDP in 5 years, the reduction of the public expenditure by at least 6 of GDP in 5 years, the reduction of the tax burden on citizens by at least 5 in 5 years, the introduction of a serious federalism, university reform, liberalizations and privatizations. On 8 December 2012 it was announced that the association would run an electoral list in the 2013 general election. In the election, held in February 2013, the party obtained 1...
The Intersport Cup 2021 is a friendly women's handball tournament held between 25 and 28 November 2021, organised by the Norwegian Handball Federation as preparation for the home team for the 2021 World Women's Handball Championship and named Intersport for sponsorship reasons.  Results   Round robin  All times are local .  References   External links  Norges Hndballforbund Official Website
Ligumia is a genus of freshwater mussels, aquatic bivalve mollusks in the family Unionidae.  Species  Species within the genus Liguma include: Ligumia recta Species brought into synonymy Ligumia nasuta: synonym of Sagittunio nasutus Ligumia subrostrata : synonym of Sagittunio subrostratus  References  Williams, J. D. Bogan, A. E. Garner, J. T. . Freshwater mussels of Alabama and the Mobile Basin in Georgia, Mississippi and Tennessee. University of Alabama Press, Tuscaloosa. 908 pp InvertEBase. . Authority files of U.S. and Canadian land and freshwater mollusks developed for the InvertEBase project .  External links  Swainson, W. . A treatise on malacology or shells and shell-fish. London, Longman. viii  419 pp
The Myth of Hitler's Pope: How Pope Pius II Rescued Jews from the Nazis is a 2005 book by American historian and Rabbi David G. Dalin. It was published by Regnery Publishing.  Background  In 2001 Joseph Bottum, the Literary Editor of The Weekly Standard, commissioned Dalin to write an omnibus review article on the books relating to Pope Pius II, who was the center of controversy in the wake of John Cornwell's book Hitler's Pope. Published in February 2001, Dalin's essay concluded that Pope Pius II was a Righteous Gentile who saved hundreds of thousands of lives during the Holocaust. Bottum stated that the essay went far beyond any claim I had been willing to make, though he did not say whether he disagreed with any of the claims in the essay, and also noted that one New York Times reviewer who responded in the way I had supposed most would and grumbled a little but eventually concluded the claims about Pius II were overwrought and Dalin was basically right: the Pope did more than most to shelter Jews. Dalin's book, The Myth of Hitler's Pope, has been translated into Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese and Polish.  Contents  Dalin first...
This is a list of people who have served as Custos Rotulorum of Cheshire. Richard Sampson, Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield bef. 1544-1547 Sir Thomas Holcroft 1548-1558 Sir Richard Harpur 1558-1563 Sir William Gerard bef. 1564 - bef. 1573 Sir Edward Fitton bef. 1573-1579 Sir Hugh Cholmondeley 1579-1597 Sir Hugh Cholmondeley 1597-1601 Sir John Egerton 1601-1614 Sir George Booth, 1st Baronet 1621-1644 Sir Orlando Bridgeman, 1st Baronet 1644-1646? Interregnum George Booth, 1st Baron Delamer 1660-1673 Henry Booth, 2nd Baron Delamer 1673-1682 William Stanley, 9th Earl of Derby 1682-1688 William Herbert, 1st Marquess of Powis 1688-1689 Henry Booth, 1st Earl of Warrington 1689-1694 For later Custodes Rotulorum, see Lord Lieutenant of Cheshire.  References  Institute of Historical Research - Custodes Rotulorum 1544-1646 Institute of Historical Research - Custodes Rotulorum 1660-1828
An associate degree or associate's degree is an undergraduate degree awarded after a course of post-secondary study lasting two to three years. It is a level of academic qualification above a high school diploma and below a bachelor's degree. The first associate degrees were awarded in the UK in 1873 before spreading to the US in 1898. In the United States, the associate degree may allow transfer into the third year of a bachelor's degree. Associate degrees have since been introduced in a small number of other countries.  History  The title of Associate in Physical Science from 1879 was introduced in 1865 by the University of Durham College of Physical Sciences and awarded from 1873. It required passes in three of mathematics, physics, chemistry and geology, and allowed students to go on to take the examination for the Bachelor of Science. As a university-level qualification lying below the bachelor's degree, this is considered to be the world's first associate degree in the modern sense, having been first awarded 25 years prior to the introduction of associate degrees into the US...
Pharmacy is the science and practice of dispensing, preparing, reviewing safety and efficacy, monitoring, discovering, producing, and consulting about medications, aiming to ensure the safe, effective, and affordable use of medicines. It is an interdisciplinary science as it links health sciences, pharmaceutical sciences, and natural sciences with the humanities. The professional practice is clinically oriented, with most drugs now being manufactured by pharmaceutical industries and prescribed in the medical setting. Based on the setting, pharmacy practice is either classified as community or institutional pharmacy. Providing direct patient care is considered clinical pharmacy, mainly practiced in intuitions like hospitals, long-term care facilities, hospice, ambulatory clinics, or psychiatric hospitals. However, more clinical application are becoming important in the community setting to combat barriers to accessing healthcare e.g., immunizations, point of care testing, oral contraceptive prescribing, administering injectable therapies, suggesting OTC products, or prescribing under Physician backed protocols. The scope of pharmacy practice includes more traditional roles such as...
A Bachelor of Arts and Science , sometimes as Bachelor of Science and Arts , is an undergraduate bachelor's degree conferred by a small number of universities from countries including the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, and France. There is no one set way in which a Bachelor of Arts and Science programme is generally structured but they generally involve students taking interdisciplinary courses from both the liberal arts and the sciences, andor require a student to complete the general requirements for a bachelor's degree for two different academic majors - one that usually leads to a BA degree and one that usually leads to a BSc degree. The degrees are generally designed to be completed in three to four years, depending on the institution. In English-speaking universities, the BASc is not an example of a double degree, as universities only confer a single degree. However, Sciences Po, the only French-speaking university to offer the programme, grants a dual Bachelor's degree upon completion.  References 
An Institute of Science is an educational institution that imparts higher education in various scientific disciplines. Institute of Science may also refer to: Austria Institute of Science and Technology, Austria Bangladesh Institute of Science and Technology, Bangladesh Canada Nova Scotian Institute of Science, Nova Scotia China Guangdong Institute of Science and Technology, Tianhe District of Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China. Hunan Institute of Science and Technology, Hunan, China India The Institute of Science, Mumbai, formerly known as Royal Institute of Science, Bombay Bansal Institute of Science and Technology, Bhopal, India Federal Institute of Science and Technology, Angamaly, Kerala Global Institute of Science  Technology, Haldia, West Bengal, India Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali, Punjab, India Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Valiamala, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research, India Institute of Science and Technology, West Bengal Institute of Science and Technology...
In mathematical optimization and computer science, heuristic from Greek  eursko I find, discover is a technique designed for problem solving more quickly when classic methods are too slow for finding an exact or approximate solution, or when classic methods fail to find any exact solution in a search space. This is achieved by trading optimality, completeness, accuracy, or precision for speed. In a way, it can be considered a shortcut. A heuristic function, also simply called a heuristic, is a function that ranks alternatives in search algorithms at each branching step based on available information to decide which branch to follow. For example, it may approximate the exact solution.  Definition and motivation  The objective of a heuristic is to produce a solution in a reasonable time frame that is good enough for solving the problem at hand. This solution may not be the best of all the solutions to this problem, or it may simply approximate the exact solution. But it is still valuable because finding it does not require a prohibitively long time. Heuristics may produce results by themselves, or they may be used in conjunction with optimization algorithms to improve...
Vojvodinian Academy of Sciences and Art Serbian: Vojvoanska akademija nauka i umetnosti       or shortly VANU is an academic institution in Serbia in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. It is located in the capital of the province, Novi Sad. The current president of VANU is Livija Cvetianin.  Foundation  Vojvodinian Academy of Sciences and Arts was founded in 1979. The modern academy was founded as a group of citizens on October 23, 2003 by a decree of Nenad anak, the then President of the Assembly of Vojvodina. Since December 15, 2009, it has been recognized as an academic institution that is functioning in AP Vojvodina. It was de jure unrecognized as an academic institution by authorities until December 15, 2009, when it was officially constituted by Assembly of Vojvodina. By the new statute of Vojvodina its status has been resolved.  Purpose  VANU is the academy of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Its main aim is to transmit traditions in sciences and arts of the multicultural and multiethnic area through cooperation with other academies and institutions. Its secondary goal is to improve living conditions in the...
Advanced Science is an interdisciplinary peer-reviewed open-access scientific journal covering fundamental and applied research in materials science, physics and chemistry, medical and life sciences, as well as engineering. It is published by Wiley-VCH and was established in 2014. The editor-in-chief is Kirsten Severing.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in: Chemical Abstracts Service Current ContentsPhysical, Chemical  Earth Sciences Science Citation Index Expanded According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2025 impact factor of 14.1.  References   External links  Official website
The New Science Italian: La Scienza Nuova pronounced  is the major work of Italian philosopher Giambattista Vico. It was first published in 1725 to little success, but has gone on to be highly regarded and influential in the philosophy of history, sociology, and anthropology. The central concepts were highly original and prefigured the Age of Enlightenment.  Titles  The full title of the 1725 edition was Principj di una Scienza Nuova Intorno alla Natura delle Nazioni per la Quale si Ritruovano i Principj di Altro Sistema del Diritto Naturale delle Genti, ending with a dedication to Cardinal Lorenzo Corsini, the future Pope Clement II. Principj and ritruovano being archaic spellings of principi and ritrovano, the title may be loosely translated Principles of a New Science Concerning the Nature of Nations, through Which Are Recovered the Principles of Another System of the Natural Law of Peoples. The 1730 edition was titled Cinque Libri di Giambattista Vico de' Principj d' una Scienza Nuova d'Intorno alla Comune Natura della Nazioni Giambattista Vico's Five Books on the Principles of a New Science Concerning Nations' Shared Nature, ending with a dedication...
This is a list of atheists in science and technology. A statement by a living person that he or she does not believe in God is not a sufficient criterion for inclusion in this list. Persons in this list are people who both have publicly identified themselves as atheists and whose atheism is relevant to their notable activities or public life.  A  Scott Aaronson : American theoretical computer scientist and professor at the University of Texas at Austin. His primary area of research is quantum computing and computational complexity theory. Ernst Abbe : German physicist, optometrist, entrepreneur, and social reformer. Together with Otto Schott and Carl Zeiss, he laid the foundation of modern optics. Abbe developed numerous optical instruments. He was a co-owner of Carl Zeiss AG, a German manufacturer of research microscopes, astronomical telescopes, planetariums and other optical systems. Fay Ajzenberg-Selove : American nuclear physicist who was known for her experimental work in nuclear spectroscopy of light elements, and for her annual reviews of the energy levels of light atomic nuclei. She was a recipient of the 2007 National Medal...
In computer science, zipping is a function which maps a tuple of sequences into a sequence of tuples. This name zip derives from the action of a zipper in that it interleaves two formerly disjoint sequences. The inverse function is unzip.  Example  Given the three words cat, fish and be where cat is 3, fish is 4 and be is 2. Let  displaystyle ell  denote the length of the longest word which is fish   4 displaystyle ell 4 . The zip of cat, fish, be is then 4 tuples of elements:  c , f , b   a , i , e   t , s ,     , h ,   displaystyle  where  is a symbol not in the original alphabet. In Haskell this truncates to the shortest sequence   displaystyle underline...
KAIST originally the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology is a national research university located in Daedeok Innopolis, Daejeon, South Korea. KAIST was established by the Korean government in 1971 as the nation's first public, research-oriented science and engineering institution. KAIST has 10,504 full-time students and 1,342 faculty researchers and had a total budget of US765 million in 2013, of which US459 million was from research contracts. In 2007, KAIST first began partnering with international institutions to adopt dual degree programs for its students. The current list of partner institutions includes New York University, the Technical University of Denmark, Carnegie Mellon University, the Georgia Institute of Technology, Technische Universitt Berlin, and the Technical University of Munich.  History  The institute was founded in 1971 as the Korea Advanced Institute of Science by a loan of US6 million from the United States Agency for International Development and supported by President Park Chung-Hee. The institute's academic scheme was mainly designed by Frederick E. Terman, then vice...
The following is a list of educational institutions in Coimbatore.  Schools   CBSE  National Model Senior Secondary School SSVM Institutions - A group of private schools in Coimbatore offering CBSE, Cambridge IGCSE, IB, and NIOS curricula. Established in 1998. VIBGYOR High School, Coimbatore Alchemy Public School Air Force School Benglen Public Senior Secondary School Noyyal Public School PSG Public Schools Suguna PIP School The NGP School Yuvabharathi Public School Delhi Public Schools, Coimbatore campus Rathinam International Public School The Indian Public School Velammal Bodhi Campus Samashti International School Amrita Vidyalayam, Ettimadai Amrita Vidyalayam, Kalapatti Amrita Vidyalayam, Nallampalyam Chinmaya International Residential School, Siruvani  ICSE  National Model Quantum Leap Academy Stanes Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School  Government Aided  CSI Boys Higher Secondary School Stanes Anglo Indian Higher Secondary School T.A.Ramalingam Chettiar Higher Secondary School ST.MICHAELS HIGHER SECONDARY SCHOOL  Private  Alvernia Matriculation Higher Secondary School Carmel Garden Matriculation Higher Secondary School GRG Matriculation Higher Secondary School...
19th-century science was greatly influenced by Romanticism , an intellectual movement that originated in Western Europe as a counter-movement to the late-18th-century Enlightenment. Romanticism incorporated many fields of study, including politics, the arts, and the humanities. In contrast to the Enlightenment's mechanistic natural philosophy, European scientists of the Romantic period held that observing nature implied understanding the self and that knowledge of nature should not be obtained by force. They felt that the Enlightenment had encouraged the abuse of the sciences, and they sought to advance a new way to increase scientific knowledge, one that they felt would be more beneficial not only to mankind but to nature as well. Romanticism advanced a number of themes: it promoted anti-reductionism that the whole is more valuable than the parts alone and epistemological optimism , and encouraged creativity, experience, and genius. It also emphasized the scientist's role in scientific discovery, holding that acquiring knowledge of nature meant understanding man as well therefore, these scientists placed a...
Frontiers Media SA is a publisher of peer-reviewed, open access, scientific journals currently active in science, technology, and medicine. It was founded in 2007 by Kamila and Henry Markram. Frontiers is based in Lausanne, Switzerland, with offices in the United Kingdom, Spain, and China. In 2022, Frontiers employed more than 1,400 people, across 14 countries. All Frontiers journals are published under a Creative Commons Attribution License. The quality of editorial rigour at Frontiers journals has been the subject of serious scrutiny. In 2015, Frontiers Media was classified as a possible predatory publisher by Jeffrey Beall, though Beall's list was taken offline two years later after Frontiers applied pressure to Beall's employer, the University of Colorado, in a decision that remains controversial. As of 2022, 96 Frontiers journals are listed in the Norwegian Scientific Index, of which 2 have a rating of level 2 , over 88 have a rating of level 1 , one has a rating of level  , and five have a rating of level 0 . In 2022, various Swiss authors and institutions had a national publishing...
In computer science, and in particular functional programming, a hylomorphism is a recursive function, corresponding to the composition of an anamorphism which first builds a set of results also known as 'unfolding' followed by a catamorphism which then folds these results into a final return value. Fusion of these two recursive computations into a single recursive pattern then avoids building the intermediate data structure. This is an example of deforestation, a program optimization strategy. A related type of function is a metamorphism, which is a catamorphism followed by an anamorphism.  Formal definition  A hylomorphism h : A  C displaystyle h:Arightarrow C can be defined in terms of its separate anamorphic and catamorphic parts. The anamorphic part can be defined in terms of a unary function g : A  B  A displaystyle g:Arightarrow Btimes A defining the list of elements in B displaystyle B by repeated application , and a predicate...
Science  Society: A Journal of Marxist Thought and Analysis is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal of Marxist scholarship. Founded in 1936 and appearing quarterly ever since, it is called the oldest continuing Marxist publication in the English language. It covers economics, philosophy of science, theoretical foundations in the natural sciences, historiography, women's studies, literature, the arts, and other social science disciplines from a Marxist point of view. In addition to its emphasis on social and political theory, Science  Society also features first-order historical research.  History  After its founding in 1936, the journal assembled as its editors, associates, and contributors a group of leading leftist academics and scientists, including J. D. Bernal, Joseph Needham, Louis Boudin, Ralph Bunche, E. Franklin Frazier, Robert Morss Lovett, Broadus Mitchell, Paul Sweezy, Margaret Schlauch, Edwin Berry Burgum, J. B. S. Haldane, Dirk Struik, and Granville Hicks. But circumstances soon changed, as David Goldway writes:Beginning in the early 1940s and intensifying by the end of that decade and into the next, Science and Society suffered from the severe repression...
Below is a list of science museums all over the world. See Science museum for definitions.  Europe   Austria  Ars Electronica Center, Linz Haus der Musik , Vienna Naturhistorisches Museum Wien , Vienna Technisches Museum Wien , Vienna  Belgium  Euro Space Center, Libin Hidrodoe, Herentals Pass, Frameries Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, Brussels Technopolis, Mechelen  Bulgaria  National Polytechnical Museum, Sofia  Croatia  Nikola Tesla Memorial Center, Smiljan Split Science Museum and Zoo, Split Technical Museum, Zagreb  Czech Republic  National Technical Museum, Prague Techmania Science Center, Plze  Denmark  Kroppedal, Copenhagen Natural History Museum of Denmark, Copenhagen Science Museums, Aarhus Tycho Brahe Planetarium, Copenhagen  Estonia  AHHAA, Tartu  Finland  Arktikum, Rovaniemi Heureka, Vantaa Tietomaa, Oulu  France  Ampre Museum, Lyon Cit de l'espace, Toulouse Cit des Sciences et de l'Industrie, Paris Micropolis , Millau Muse des Arts et Mtiers, Paris Palais de la Dcouverte, Paris Vulcania, Saint-Ours-les-Roches Exploradme, Vitry...
Mystery Science Theater 3000 is an American television comedy series created by Joel Hodgson and originally produced by Best Brains, Inc. The show premiered on KTMA in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 24, 1988. The next year, in 1989, the show began its national run on The Comedy Channel, running for two seasons. It continued for five more seasons on Comedy Central following The Comedy Channel's merger with Ha!: TV Comedy Network. It was cancelled in 1996, but the following year was picked up by The Sci-Fi Channel and aired for three more seasons there until another cancellation in August 1999 . A sixty-episode syndication package titled The Mystery Science Theater Hour was produced in 1995. In 2015, Hodgson led a crowdfunded revival of the series with 14 episodes in its eleventh season which was released on Netflix. As of December 16, 2022, 230 episodes of Mystery Science Theater 3000 have been released, concluding the thirteenth season. A feature film, titled Mystery Science Theater 3000: The Movie, was also released on April 19, 1996. In 2026, it was announced that Joel Hodgson had sold Mystery Science Theater 3000 to Radial...
Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra is a government funded technical institute situated at Ranchi, Jharkhand, India. It was declared as a deemed university under Section 3 of the UGC Act. The institute was included under Section 12B of the UGC Act, 1956, in November 2023.  History  The Birla Institute of Technology was established in 1955 at Mesra by industrialist and philanthropist B. M. Birla. The institute was affiliated with Patna University until 1960, and then with Ranchi University. In 1986 BIT was elevated to the status of a deemed university under section 3 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956. BIT was the first institute in India to set up a department of space engineering and rocketry, in 1964. The Small Industries Research and Development Organization was set up in 1970 to support small manufacturing enterprises managed by graduates of BIT. Companies created from this concept include Meditron and Alcast. This idea was recognized by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, which spread the concept to other institutes such as IITs, under the concept name Science and Technological Entrepreneurs Park . The...
Political economy - sometimes referred to as comparative economy - is an interdisciplinary field in political science and economics that studies the relationship between political and economic systems, including how they influence each other. The field originated within the 16th-century Western moral philosophy, with theoretical works exploring the administration of states' wealth. The earliest works of political economy are usually attributed to the British scholars Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, and David Ricardo, although the work of the French physiocrats preceded them. Various thinkers, from John Stuart Mill to Karl Marx, saw economics and politics as inseparable. By the mid-18th century, political economy emerged as a distinct field, encompassing the study of phenomena that is now categorised under economics. In the late-19th century, economics had become an independent discipline separate from political economy with the rise of mathematical modeling, coinciding with the publication of the influential textbook Principles of Economics by Alfred Marshall in 1890. In its modern form, political economy is an interdisciplinary field analyzing phenomena such as labour markets, international...
A science book is a work of nonfiction, usually written by a scientist, researcher, or professor like Stephen Hawking , or sometimes by a non-scientist such as Bill Bryson . Usually these books are written for a wide audience presumed to have a general education rather than a specifically scientific training, as opposed to the very narrow audience that a scientific paper would have, and are therefore referred to as popular science. As such, they require considerable talent on the part of the author to sufficiently explain difficult topics to people who are totally new to the subject, and a good blend of storytelling and technical writing. In the UK, the Royal Society Prizes for Science Books are considered to be the most prestigious awards for science writing. In the US, the National Book Awards briefly had a category for science writing in the 1960s, but now they just have the broad categories of fiction and nonfiction. There are many disciplines that are well explained to lay people through science books. A few examples include Carl Sagan on astronomy, Jared Diamond on geography, Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Dawkins...
Raymond Goethals French: , Flemish:  7 October 1921 - 6 December 2004 was a Belgian football coach who led Marseille to victory in the UEFA Champions League final in 1993, becoming the first coach to win a European trophy with a French club. Sometimes nicknamed Raymond-la-science Raymond-the-Science, previously the nickname of Belgian anarchist and Bonnot gang member Raymond Callemin, le sorcier or le magicien , Goethals was known for his blunt way of speaking, his habit of mispronouncing players' names and his distinctive Brussels accent. A chain smoker, he was likened to TV police detective Lieutenant Columbo. He was the father of the referee Guy Goethals, who officiated at the 1992 European Championship and 1996 European Championship.  Playing career  Goethals began his career as a goalkeeper in the 1930s with Daring Brussels, making his way through the youth ranks of the club before joining Racing Club Brussel in 1947. He remained at Racing Club Brussel until 1948.  Coaching career   Early career  After a period spent playing for Renaisinne, he moved into coaching with Hannutois and Waremme...
East Carolina University is a public research university in Greenville, North Carolina, United States. It is the fourth largest university in North Carolina. It is unique in North Carolina in that it hosts schools of medicine, dentistry, and engineering at the same university. Founded on March 8, 1907, as a teacher training school, East Carolina has grown from its original 43 acres to almost 1,600 acres today. The university's academic facilities are located on six properties: Main Campus Health Sciences Campus West Research Campus the Field Station for Coastal Studies in New Holland, North Carolina the Millennial Research Innovation Campus in Greenville's warehouse district and an overseas campus in Certaldo Alto, Italy. ECU also operates the Coastal Studies Institute. The university has nine undergraduate colleges, graduate school, and four professional schools. All of the non-health sciences majors are located on the main campus. The College of Nursing, College of Allied Health Sciences, The Brody School of Medicine, and School of Dental Medicine are located on the health science campus. ECU is classified among R1: Doctoral Universities - Very High research...
This list of life sciences comprises the branches of science that involve the scientific study of life - such as animals , microorganisms, and plants. This is one of the two major branches of natural science, the other being physical science, which is concerned with non-living matter. Biology is the overall natural science that studies life, with the other life sciences as its sub-disciplines. Some life sciences focus on a specific type of organism. For example, zoology is the study of animals, while botany is the study of plants. Other life sciences focus on aspects common to all or many life forms, such as anatomy and genetics. Some focus on the micro scale , while others focus on larger scales e.g., cytology, immunology, ethology, pharmacy, ecology. Another major branch of life sciences involves understanding the mind-neuroscience. Life-science discoveries are helpful in improving the quality and standard of life and have applications in health, agriculture, medicine, and the pharmaceutical and food science industries. For example, they have provided information on certain diseases, which has helped in the understanding...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 606 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Robot Framework is a generic software test automation framework for acceptance testing and acceptance test-driven development . It is a keyword-driven testing framework that uses tabular test data syntax.  History  The basic ideas for Robot Framework were shaped in Pekka Klrck's masters thesis in 2005. The first version was developed at Nokia Networks the same year. Version 2.0 was released as open source software June 24, 2008 and version 3.0.2 was released February 7, 2017. The framework is written using the Python programming language and has an active community of contributors. It is released under Apache License 2.0 and can be downloaded from robotframework.org. In 2020 survey it scored 8 among 12 test automation frameworks, with 3  of respondents using it. In 2021 it had fallen to 18 among 22 with 2  usage.  Description  Test cases are written using a keyword-testing methodology written in a tabular format. These tables can be written in plain text, tab-separated values , or reStructuredText formats files in any text editor or using the Robot Integrated Development Environment . RIDE simplifies writing test cases by providing framework-specific...
This is a list of commercial video games with later released available source code. The source code of these commercially developed and distributed video games is available to the public or the games' communities.  Background  Commercial video games are typically developed as proprietary closed source software products, with the source code treated as a trade secret . When there is no more expected revenue, these games enter the end-of-life as a product with no support or availability for the game's users and community. In several of the cases listed here, the game's developers released the source code expressly to prevent their work from becoming lost. Such source code is often released under varying free and non-free, commercial and non-commercial software licenses to the games' communities or the public artwork and data are often released under a different license than the source code, as the copyright situation is different or more complicated. The source code may be pushed by the developers to public repositories , or given to selected game community members, or sold with the game, or become available by other means...
This is a list of Go software and tools, including compilers, development environments, build tools, testing frameworks, web frameworks, database tools, and related software for the Go programming language.  Core toolchain  Go - programming language and toolchain go command - build and package tool gofmt - source code formatter go vet - static analysis tool  Compilers and runtimes  gc - default Go compiler gccgo - GCC front end for Go GopherJS - Go-to-JavaScript compiler gollvm - Go compiler using the LLVM backend llgo - experimental Go frontend for LLVM TinyGo - compiler for embedded systems and WebAssembly Yaegi - Go interpreter  Development environments and editors  Emacs - text editor with Go support GoLand - JetBrains integrated development environment LiteIDE - Go-focused integrated development environment Neovim - text editor with Go support TextMate - text editor with Go support Vim - text editor with Go support Visual Studio Code - editor with Go support  Language servers and editor tools  delve - debugger gopls - Go language server golangci-lint - lint runner revive - linter staticcheck - static analysis tool  Build, dependency and release tools  Air...
Codex is an AI coding agent developed by OpenAI for software engineering tasks such as writing code and fixing bugs, released in April 2025 as Codex CLI. Codex is available through ChatGPT's web app, the Codex CLI, a desktop app for Windows and macOS, and several IDE integrations. In March 2026, OpenAI introduced Codex Security, an application-security agent designed to identify and fix software vulnerabilities. By March 2026, Codex had grown to more than 2 million weekly active users, and OpenAI was positioning it as a broader enterprise agent platform that could eventually be used for tasks beyond software development.  History  OpenAI released Codex CLI on April 16, 2025, as an open-source coding agent that runs locally in the terminal. It connects OpenAI's language models with local code and command-line tasks, enabling them to write and edit code, execute commands, and interact with files through a lightweight interface. A month later, on May 16, 2025, the company announced a research preview of Codex Cloud. At launch it was powered by codex-1, a version of the o3 reasoning model optimized for software engineering, and could write features, answer questions about a codebase...
ComfyUI is an open source, node-based program that allows users to generate images from a series of text prompts. It uses free diffusion models such as Stable Diffusion as the base model for its image capabilities combined with other tools such as ControlNet and LCM Low-rank adaptation with each tool being represented by a node in the program.  History  ComfyUI was released on GitHub in January 2023. According to comfyanonymous, the creator, a major goal of the project was to improve on existing software designs in terms of the user interface. The creator had been involved with Stability AI but by 3 June 2024 that involvement had ended and an organization called Comfy Org had been created along with the core developers. In July 2024, Nvidia announced support for ComfyUI within its RT Remix modding software. In August 2024, support was added for the Flux diffusion model developed by Black Forest Labs, and Comfy Org joined the Open Model Initiative created by the Linux Foundation. As of July 2026, the project has 122k stars on GitHub. ComfyUI is one of the most popular user interfaces for Stable Diffusion, along with Automatic1111.  Features  ComfyUI's main feature is that it...
WebAssembly defines a portable binary code format and a corresponding text format for executable programs and software interfaces for facilitating communication between such programs and their host environment. The main goal of WebAssembly is to facilitate high-performance applications on web pages, but it is also designed to be usable in non-web environments. It is an open standard intended to support any language on any operating system, and in practice many of the most popular languages already have at least some level of support. Announced in 2015 and first released in March 2017 , WebAssembly became a World Wide Web Consortium recommendation on 5 December 2019 and it received the Programming Languages Software Award from the Association for Computing Machinery SIGPLAN in 2021. The W3C maintains the standard with contributions from Mozilla, Microsoft, Google, Apple, Fastly, Intel, and Red Hat.  History  The name WebAssembly is intended to suggest bringing assembly language programming to the World Wide Web, where it will be executed client-side, by the website-user's computer via the user's web browser. To accomplish this, WebAssembly must...
Nvidia Corporation is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Santa Clara, California. The company develops graphics processing units , systems on chips , and application programming interfaces for data science, high-performance computing, artificial intelligence , and mobile and automotive applications. Founded in 1993 by Jensen Huang, Chris Malachowsky, and Curtis Priem, Nvidia has been widely described as a Big Tech company. Originally focused on GPUs for video games, Nvidia broadened their usage into other markets, including AI, professional visualization, and supercomputing. The company's product lines include GeForce GPUs for gaming and creative workloads, and professional GPUs for edge computing, scientific research, and industrial applications. As of the first quarter of 2025, Nvidia held a 92 share of the discrete desktop and laptop GPU market.  History   Founding  Nvidia was founded on April 5, 1993, by Jensen Huang, a Taiwanese-American electrical engineer who was previously the director of CoreWare at LSI Logic and a microprocessor designer at AMD, Chris Malachowsky, an engineer who worked at Sun Microsystems...
WhatsApp Messenger, commonly known simply as WhatsApp, is an American social media, instant messaging , and Voice over IP service accessible via desktop and mobile app. Owned by Meta Platforms, the service allows users to send text messages, voice messages, and video messages, make voice and video calls, and share images, documents, user locations, and other content. The service requires a cellular mobile telephone number to register. WhatsApp was launched in May 2009. In January 2018, WhatsApp released a standalone business app called WhatsApp Business which can communicate with the standard WhatsApp client. As of May 2025, the service had 3 billion monthly active users, making it the most popular messenger app. The name of the app is meant to sound like what's up. The service was created by WhatsApp Inc. of Mountain View, California, which was acquired by Facebook in February 2014 for approximately US19.3 billion. It became the world's most popular messaging application in 2015, with 900 million users, and had more than 2 billion active users worldwide in February 2020. WhatsApp Business had approximately 200 million monthly users in 2023. By 2016, it had become the...
Chris Wanstrath is an American technology entrepreneur and programmer. He is the founder of Null Games, and the co-founder and former CEO of GitHub, an Internet hosting service for software development and version control using Git. Wanstrath co-founded GitHub in 2008 and sold it to Microsoft in 2018. Before starting GitHub, he worked with CNET on GameSpot and Chowhound. In addition to GitHub, he created the Atom text editor, Ruby's Resque job queue, the Mustache templating language, and the pjax JavaScript library. According to Forbes his net worth is estimated at US1.8-2.2 billion and is listed in America's richest entrepreneurs under 40, as well as Fortune's 40 under 40 and he was named in CNBC's Disruptor 50 list.  Early life  Wanstrath was born on March 13, 1985. From a young age, he loved video games, and wanted to create his own. He graduated from St. avier High School in Cincinnati in 2003 and briefly studied English at the University of Cincinnati. He left the university after getting a job in San Francisco at CNET Networks.  Career  Before the success of GitHub, Wanstrath ran a Ruby on Rails consulting shop with P. J. Hyett a GitHub co-founder...
Telegram is a Russian-Emirati cloud-based, cross-platform social media and instant messaging service. It launched for iOS on 14 August 2013 and Android on 20 October 2013. It allows users to exchange messages, share media and files, and hold private and group voice or video calls as well as public livestreams. It is available for Android, iOS, Windows, macOS, Linux, Wear OS, watchOS and web browsers. Telegram offers end-to-end encryption in voice and video calls, and optionally in private chats if both participants use a mobile device. Telegram also has social networking features, allowing users to post stories, create public groups with up to 200,000 members, and share one-way updates to unlimited audiences in so-called channels. Telegram was founded in 2013 by Pavel and Nikolai Durov. Its servers are distributed worldwide with several data centers, and its headquarters are in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It was the most downloaded app worldwide in January 2021, with a billion downloads globally as of late August 2021. As of 2024, registration to Telegram requires either a phone number and a smartphone or one of a limited number of non-fungible...
Eclipse is an integrated development environment used in computer programming. It contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. It had been the most popular IDE for Java development until 2016, when it was surpassed by IntelliJ IDEA. Eclipse is written mostly in Java and its primary use is for developing Java applications, but it may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages via plug-ins, including Ada, ABAP, C, C, C, Clojure, COBOL, D, Erlang, Fortran, Groovy, Haskell, HLASM, JavaScript, Julia, Lasso, Lua, NATURAL, Perl, PHP, PLI, Prolog, Python, R, Rexx, Ruby , Rust, Scala, and Scheme. It can also be used to develop documents with LaTe and packages for the software Mathematica. Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for CC, and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others. The initial codebase originated from IBM VisualAge. The Eclipse software development kit , which includes the Java development tools, is meant for Java developers. Users can extend its abilities by installing...
Llama Large Language Model Meta AI serving as a backronym is a family of large language models released by Meta AI starting in February 2023. Llama models come in different sizes, ranging from 1 billion to 2 trillion parameters. Initially only a foundation model, starting with Llama 2, Meta AI released instruction fine-tuned versions alongside foundation models. Model weights for the first version of Llama were only available to researchers on a case-by-case basis, under a non-commercial license. Unauthorized copies of the first model were shared via BitTorrent. Subsequent versions of Llama were made accessible outside academia and released under licenses that permitted some commercial use. Alongside the release of Llama 3, Meta rolled out Meta AI, an AI assistant built on Llama. Meta AI has a dedicated website and is available on Facebook and WhatsApp. The latest version is Llama 4, released in April 2025. In April 2026, Meta Superintelligence Labs released Muse Spark as a replacement for Llama powering chatbots on various Meta services.  Background  After the release of large language models such as GPT-3, a focus of research was up-scaling models, which in some instances...
The New York Times is a newspaper based in Manhattan, New York City. The New York Times covers domestic, national, and international news, and publishes opinion pieces and reviews. One of the longest-running newspapers in the United States, the Times serves as one of the country's newspapers of record. As of August 2025, The New York Times had 11.88 million total and 11.3 million online subscribers, both the highest numbers for any newspaper in the United States by a significant margin the total also included 580,000 print subscribers. The New York Times is published by the New York Times Company. Since 1896, the company has been chaired by the Ochs-Sulzberger family. The current chairman and the paper's publisher is A. G. Sulzberger. The Times is headquartered at The New York Times Building in Midtown Manhattan. The Times was founded as the conservative New-York Daily Times in 1851, and came to national recognition in the 1870s with its aggressive coverage of corrupt politician Boss Tweed. Following the Panic of 1893, Chattanooga Times publisher Adolph Ochs gained a controlling interest in the company. In 1935, Ochs was succeeded by his son-in-law, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, who...
Simon Oxley was a British freelance graphic designer and illustrator who was most famous for designing the original bird logo for Twitter, the Octocat logo for GitHub, the puffer fish for Bitly, and Sammy the Shark for DigitalOcean. Operating predominantly under the studio pseudonym Idokungfoo, Oxley became a pioneer in the microstock economy and played a seminal role in establishing the friendly, mascot-driven aesthetic of the Web 2.0 era.  Early life and education  Oxley was born in 1969 in the rural village of Kingsclere, United Kingdom. From an early age, he developed a profound fascination with graphic novels, comic strips, and heavily illustrated storybooks. Rather than a passive consumer, he spent considerable hours meticulously tracing comic images to analyse line structure and character anatomy, often engaging in friendly drawing competitions with his peers. His early artistic inclination was rewarded during his school years, where he frequently incorporated elaborate illustrations into his history and geography assignments, earning him House Points for his visual presentation over written content. Seeking formal training, Oxley enrolled in a one-year...
OBS Studio also Open Broadcaster Software or OBS, for short is a free and open-source, cross-platform screencasting and live streaming software application. It is available for Windows, macOS, Linux distributions, and FreeBSD. The OBS Project raises funds on Open Collective and Patreon.  Overview  OBS Studio is a free and open-source application for screencasting and live streaming. Written in CC and built with Qt, OBS Studio provides real-time capture, scene composition, recording, encoding, and broadcasting via Real-Time Messaging Protocol , HLS, SRT, RIST or WebRTC. It can stream videos to any RTMP-supporting destination, including YouTube, Twitch, Instagram and Facebook. For video encoding, OBS Studio can use the x264, AOM-AV1, SVT-AV1, Intel Quick Sync Video, Nvidia NVENC, AMD Video Coding Engine and VAAPI to encode video streams into the H.264MPEG-4 AVC or H.265HEVC formats. It can encode multiple tracks of audio in AAC and Opus format. More experienced users can choose any codecs and containers available in libavcodec and libavformat, or output the stream to a custom FFmpeg URL. OBS Studio also supports plug-ins to extend its functionality.  User interface... 
Yndiara Asp is a Brazilian professional skateboarder, who represented Brazil in the 2021 Tokyo Olympics.  Early life  Born in Santa Catarina, Yndiara began skateboarding at the age of 7, and started to pursue competitive events in the age of 15. She studied Physical education in the Federal University of Santa Catarina, but opted to drop out to pursue skateboarding professionally.  Skateboarding  Yndiara has competed in women's park events at several World Skateboarding Championships, finishing 10th in 2018 and 36th in 2019. She has also competed at  Games, placing 4th in 2018. She is placed eighth in the women's park event at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics, the first that featured skateboarding as an official sport.  References   External links  Yndiara Asp at Olympedia Yndiara Asp at The Boardr Yndiara Asp at Tokyo 2020 Olympics
Chungju Public Stadium is a sports complex and training ground in Chungju, South Korea. The stadium opened in 1979 and holds around 15,000 people. It is used mostly for football matches and athletics. It was the home of K League Challenge side Chungju Hummel FC between 2010 and 2016.  External links  Chungju City Sports Facilities Management Office Chungju Stadium
DirecTV, LLC is an American video programming distributor based in El Segundo, California. Originally launched on June 17, 1994 by Hughes Electronics, its primary service is distributing virtual multichannel video programming as well as satellite services for consumers and businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico. Its primary competitors are Dish Network. On July 24, 2015, after receiving approval from the Federal Communications Commission and the Department of Justice, ATT acquired DirecTV in a transaction valued at 67.1 billion. On February 25, 2021, ATT announced that it would spin-off DirecTV into a separate entity, selling a 30 stake to TPG Inc., while retaining a 70 stake in the new standalone company. The deal closed on August 2, 2021. On September 30, 2024, ATT announced that they would sell their remaining 70 stake to TPG Inc. for 7.6 billion. The sale was completed on July 2, 2025, making DirecTV a wholly owned subsidiary of TPG Inc. and splitting the company off from ATT for the first time since 2015. On April 13, 2025, DirecTV announced the end of DirecTV Stream as a standalone brand and merged its content with its regular...
Abu'l-Fal Abbs ibn Ab al-Fut al-inhj Arabic:      , also known by the honorific al-Afal Rukn al-Dn lit. 'Most Excellent Pillar of the Faith', was a prince of the Zirid dynasty of Ifriqiya who served as vizier of the Fatimid Caliphate in 1153-1154. Abbas' family fled to Egypt when he was an infant. He grew up in the household of the Fatimid general and governor al-Adil ibn al-Sallar, whom his mother married after Abbas' father died. Abbas aided his step-father in the latter's revolt and assumption of the vizierate in 1149, pursuing and killing his predecessor, Ibn Masal. In 1153, charged with relieving the Siege of Ascalon by the Crusaders of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, he instead arranged the murder of Ibn al-Sallar and became vizier himself. Along with his son, Nasr, Abbas was then responsible for the murder of Caliph al-Zafir in April 1154, and the accession of the infant al-Fa'iz to the throne. This provoked the women of the Fatimid harem to call upon the governor Tala'i ibn Ruzzik for aid. Ibn Ruzzik overthrew Abbas, who with a few followers fled to Syria. The party was intercepted by the Crusaders, and Abbas was killed on 7 June 1154...
Dera Ismail Khan Airport or D. I. Khan Airport is an airport situated 10 km away from the city centre of Dera Ismail Khan, a city in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. This is the only airport, besides Bannu Airport, that provide aerial connections for the southern districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa with other parts of the country. The airport operations have remained suspended for a long time for various reasons. In May 2026, Dera Ismail Kham airport's rehabilitation was completed and a proving flight also landed at D.I Khan Airport by the Pakistan Army Aviation Corps.  History  Dera Ismail Khan airport was closed following the start of the Afghan-US war in 2001 for unspecified reasons. After six years, a plan to reopen the airport was made when a delegation from the district visited Islamabad. The reopening was stated to cost around Rs 4 million, which was spent on repairing the runway and the renovation and repair of the terminal building. Pakistan International Airlines was the sole operator at the airport, providing feeder services between Peshawar, Zhob, Multan, Lahore and Islamabad using Fokker F-27 aircraft. With the reopening plans, the...
Malo tebya Russian:  , lit. 'You're not enough' or 'Lack of you' is a single by the Russian pop group Serebro, the second single from their album Sila tryokh, released on May 14, 2013. The premiere of the song took place on the TopHit, where the track managed to reach the top 5 of the radio chart, staying on the chart for 31 weeks. The song became a big hit in CIS countries.  Music video  The video, directed by Igor Shmelev, premiered on July 10, 2013 on the YouTube channel of the label ELLA, from where it was later deleted. The clip is a cut of shots with the soloists in an apartment in their underwear. In the video, Elena Temnikova, Olga Seryabkina, and Anastasia Karpova are shown half-naked, lying in the bathroom with men, shaving their hair, throwing kittens on the bed, performing various fetishes, pouring milk, and lying their faces on salt in a manner similar to snorting cocaine. Additionally, here is a separate storyline with Elena and Olga, where they sit on the bed, spit cherries in each other's mouths and smear berries on the body, imitating blood. In the final part of the video, Elena and Anastasia are walking down the street, and at the same moment Olga...
Sydney Irwin Pollack was an American film director, producer, and actor. Known for directing commercially and critically acclaimed studio films, he received numerous accolades, including two Academy Awards and two Primetime Emmy Awards, in addition to nominations for three Golden Globe Awards and six BAFTA Awards in a career spanning more than 40 years. Pollack won the Academy Awards for Best Director and Best Picture for Out of Africa . He was also nominated for Academy Awards for Best Director for They Shoot Horses, Don't They? and Tootsie . Pollack's other notable films include This Property Is Condemned , Jeremiah Johnson , The Way We Were , The Yakuza , Three Days of the Condor , Absence of Malice , The Firm , and Sabrina . Pollack produced and acted in Michael Clayton . Other films he produced include The Fabulous Baker Boys , Sense and Sensibility , The Talented Mr. Ripley , Iris , Cold Mountain and The Reader . Pollack also acted in Tootsie , Robert Altman's The Player , Woody Allen's Husbands and Wives , and Stanley Kubrick...
Artsyom Alyaksandravich Radzkow Belarusian:  i  Russian:    born 26 August 1985 is a Belarusian former player, currently manager of Cypriot First Division club Aris Limassol.  Career  Radzkow was a member of Belarus national team. He ended his playing in late 2015 after being unable to fully recover from a series of injuries.  Honours  BATE Borisov Belarusian Premier League: 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Belarusian Cup: 2005-06, 2009-10 Belarusian Super Cup: 2010, 2011, 2013  External links  Artsyom Radzkow at Soccerway Artsyom Radzkow at National-Football-Teams.com
Lotte Flack is a German actress.  Life  She is the daughter of a London-born English mother and the German comic artist Eckart Breitschuh and thus has dual German and British nationality. She has two younger brothers and lives with her family in the Hamburg district of St. Pauli. Her first acting role was aged 11 and she trained in acting from 2005 to 2008 at the TASK-Schauspielschule fr Kinder und Jugendliche in Hamburg. In 2007 she played Mattie Evers, a farmer's daughter, in the ZDF comedy Der Mann im Heuhaufen, directed by Dagmar Damek. In the sixth season of Die Pfefferkrner in 2008 in the episode Falsche Freunde she played the young thief Anna. In the 2009 film Pope Joan she played the title role as a child, due to her resemblance to the actress playing the role as an adult, Johanna Wokalek. In the 2009 ARD Christmas fairytale Dornrschen she played the title role. Flack is also notable for her appearances in advertising and as the voice artist on the English-language CDs for the Hamburger Schulbehrde.  External links  Lotte Flack at IMDb Lotte Flack makes her American debut
Hubert Schmalix was an Austrian painter.  Biography  Born in Graz on 17 December 1952, Schmalix studied at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna from 1971 to 1976 under the instruction of Maximilian Melcher. In 1976, he gave his first personal exhibition at the Vienna Knstlerhaus. In 1983, he participated in aktuell '83 in Munich and subsequently travelled to Australia and the Philippines. In 1987, he moved to Los Angeles. From 1997 to 2006 he taught at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna and the University of California, Los Angeles. Schmalix died in Los Angeles on 23 March 2025, at the age of 72.  Awards  City of Vienna Prize for Fine Arts Medal of Honor of the State of Styria for Science, Research and Art  References   External links  Hubert Schmalix at IMDb
Fort Dodge is a census-designated place in Grandview Township of Ford County, Kansas, United States. As of the 2020 census, the population was 97. It is located on U.S. Route 400, 5 miles southeast of Dodge City.  History  From 1865 to 1882, Fort Dodge was an outpost on the Santa Fe Trail. After the fort closed, the site became the Kansas Soldiers' Home in 1890. Fort Dodge has a post office with ZIP code 67843.  Demographics   2020 census  The 2020 United States census counted 97 people, 37 households, and 8 families in Fort Dodge. The population density was 530.1 per square mile . There were 79 housing units at an average density of 431.7 per square mile . The racial makeup was 83.51 white or European American , 1.03 black or African-American, 1.03 Native American or Alaska Native, 1.03 Asian, 1.03 Pacific Islander or Native Hawaiian, 6.19 from other races, and 6.19 from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race was 9.28 of the population. Of the 37 households, 16.2 had children under the age of 18 18.9 were married couples living together 10.8 had a female...
Midnight in Montgomery is a song written by American country music singer Alan Jackson and Don Sampson, and recorded by Jackson. It was released in April 1992 as the fourth single from Jackson's second album, Don't Rock the Jukebox. The song peaked at number 3 on the Billboard Hot Country Singles  Tracks chart the album's only single not to top the chart, and number 3 as well on the Canadian RPM Country Tracks chart. It has been featured on numerous compilation albums by Jackson, such as 34 Number Ones and the 2015 box set Genuine: The Alan Jackson Story. In August 2020, Josh Turner recorded a cover version of Midnight In Montgomery on his album Country State of Mind.  Content  This song was written about Hank Williams, who was from Montgomery, Alabama. It is a mid-tempo, largely acoustic ballad in the key of D minor. The singer, while heading to Mobile for a New Year's Eve show, makes a visit to a Montgomery grave Williams died on New Year's Day 1953, and is buried in Montgomery, and encounters the ghost of Williams who thanks him for paying tribute before disappearing. The song also references several Williams hits, including I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry. The song ends...
Pieces of Jade is a posthumously released album by jazz bassist Scott LaFaro. It consists of five tracks dating from 1961 featuring LaFaro in a trio format with pianist Don Friedman and drummer Pete La Roca, a 23-minute recording of LaFaro rehearsing with pianist Bill Evans in 1960, a 1966 interview with Evans, and a Friedman solo piano piece dedicated to LaFaro, recorded in 1985. The album was released in 2009 by Resonance Records. According to Friedman, who briefly roomed with LaFaro in 1957, the recording of the 1961 trio tracks was unplanned: the three musicians happened to be in a studio, and the engineer said Why don't you guys play and I'll record you. These five tracks were initially released on Friedman's album Memories for Scotty, issued in 1988 by the Japanese label Insights. 2009 also saw the publication of the LaFaro biography Jade Visions, written by the bassist's sister Helene LaFaro-Fernandez, and published by University of North Texas Press as part of their Lives of Musicians Series.  Reception  In a review for AllMusic, Michael G. Nastos wrote: that this recording exists is nothing less than a miracle, and an event in the annals of jazz... It's a rare window...
Viva is an Israeli television network owned by Dori Media Group. Launched in 1999 by producer Yair Dori, it brought Latin American telenovelas to the Israeli market, which are still the backbone of the channel's schedule, though more recently, similar productions from Korea, India and Turkey also made it to its offer. The network consists of a main channel , a channel specialized in Turkish productions , a classics channel and several SVOD offerings Viva Binge, Viva Before All, Viva Premium.  History   Background  The channel's founder, Yair Dori, is an Argentine-born Jew who moved to Israel in 1966, as a follower of a Zionist movement in Argentina, who had moved there for ideological reasons and took part in the Six-Day War the following year, where he was made hostage at an Egyptian camp. In 1987, while working at Hagim , he and his brother Daniel started importing Argentine cultural content to Israel. Initially limited to cassette tapes of Latin American musicians, the introduction of cable television saw his business grow to the video market. The Doris started with sporting events, initially highlights...
Nunam Iqua, formerly called Sheldon Point, is a city in the Kusilvak Census Area in the U.S. state of Alaska. As of the 2020 census, Nunam Iqua had a population of 217. Nunam Iqua is a Yupik name meaning land's end . A man named Sheldon opened a fish saltery there in the 1930s, and the city was incorporated under the name Sheldon Point in 1974. The name was changed to Nunam Iqua in a November 1999 referendum.  Geography  Nunam Iqua is located at 623058N 1645343W . According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 18.5 square miles , of which, 13.2 square miles of it is land and 5.3 square miles of it is water.  Demographics  Nunam Iqua first appeared on the 1950 U.S. Census as the unincorporated village of Sheldon's Point. In 1960, it reported as Sheldon Point. In 1974, it formally incorporated as Sheldon Point. In 1999, the name was changed to Nunam Iqua.  2020 census  As of the 2020 census, Nunam Iqua had a population of 217. The median age was 21.7 years. 43.8 of residents were under the age of 18 and 5.5 of residents were 65 years of age or older...
Robert Hindmarch was an English footballer who played as a central defender. He once scored for Wolverhampton Wanderers against West Bromwich Albion in a Black Country derby, making him a folklore legend for the Wolves.  Career  Hindmarch made his debut for Sunderland on 14 January 1978 against Leyton Orient in a 2-2 draw at Brisbane Road. In total, he made 115 league appearances - the vast majority in the First Division - scoring two goals for the club. The defender signed for Derby County in July 1984 where he spent six seasons at the club, making 164 appearances, scoring nine goals, and helping them to two successive promotions to reach the top flight. He joined Second Division Wolverhampton Wanderers in 1990 for 350,000 and was appointed club captain, but spent just a single season at Molineux. His time with the club was perhaps most known for a last minute equaliser he scored in the Black Country derby at West Bromwich Albion. He dropped into the non-league with Telford United in May 1993, having gone two years without first team action at Wolves, and had a spell as player-manager of Irish club Cork City in the 1995-96 season. He later continued...
The Permian is a geologic period and stratigraphic system which spans 47 million years, from the end of the Carboniferous Period 298.9 Ma to the beginning of the Triassic Period 251.902 Ma. It is the sixth and last period of the Paleozoic Era the following Triassic Period belongs to the Mesozoic Era. The concept of the Permian was introduced in 1841 by geologist Sir Roderick Murchison, who named it after the region of Perm in Russia. The Permian witnessed the diversification of the two groups of amniotes, the synapsids and the sauropsids . The world at the time was dominated by the supercontinent Pangaea, which had formed with the collision of Euramerica and Gondwana, during the Carboniferous. Pangaea was surrounded by the superocean Panthalassa. The Carboniferous rainforest collapse left behind vast regions of desert within the continental interior. Amniotes, which could better cope with these drier conditions, rose to dominance in place of their amphibian ancestors. Various authors have proposed at least three, and possibly four major extinction events in the Permian, though the validity of some of these extinctions has been disputed. The...
Climate leave is paid time off from work that workers may use to address needs at one's home resulting from adverse weather impacts without losing pay. The policy was first adopted in Spain by the government of Pedro Snchez in November 2024 in response to the impact of the 2024 Spanish floods. In the United States, weather and safety leave is authorized under section 6329c of Title 5 of the United States Code for federal employees in response to closures of federal offices or prevention of travel to work at a federal office, but not in response to weather and safety impacts on the employee's home.  References 
Climate envoys are individuals that oversee and direct climate change diplomacy efforts. They are often appointed to their positions by regional organizations, national governments, blocs, or international entities. For instance, the Caribbean Community appointed James Fletcher to the role of climate envoy in 2025. During the Biden Administration, the United States established a US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate position, to which former US Secretary of State John Kerry was appointed. The European Union appointed Anthony Agotha as their Special Envoy for Climate and Environment. Both the United Nations and the World Health Organization have elected climate envoys as well. Climate envoys promote action and awareness through the implementation of legislation, programs, and policies as well as through collaboration on the local, state, national, and international levels. By facilitating diplomatic communication, coordinating joint efforts among different parties, and representing specific interests in international negotiations, climate envoys serve as liaisons in multilevel climate governance, guiding and enacting global climate initiatives. 2...
The subhumid temperate climate also called monsoon temperate climate, is a temperate climate sub-type with monsoon influence, that is a climate with dry winter and wet summer. Although the terms subhumid temperate climate and monsoon temperate climate are not officially used in the Kppen climate classification, climates of this type may fall under the Cw classification for dry winters.  Sub-types   Subtropical monsoon climate  A Subtropical monsoon climate, officially classified as a Subhumid subtropical climate or Monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate under the Kppen classification , has a hot summer. This climate is extensively present in South and Southeast Asia, mainly North India, Southern China, Myanmar and Nepal and Southern Africa, Zambia and Angola it can also be found in South America, isolated zones of Bolivia, Brazil and Argentina. It also occurs in parts of tropical highlands of So Paulo state, Mato Grosso do Sul and near the Andean highland in northwestern Argentina. These highland areas feature summer temperatures that are warm enough to fall outside the subtropical highland climate category Cwb.  Subtropical highland climate  A Highland subhumid...
An abrupt climate change occurs when the climate system is forced to transition at a rate that is determined by the climate system energy-balance. The transition rate is more rapid than the rate of change of the external forcing, though it may include sudden forcing events such as meteorite impacts. Abrupt climate change therefore is a variation beyond the variability of a climate. Past events include the end of the Carboniferous Rainforest Collapse, Younger Dryas, Dansgaard-Oeschger events, Heinrich events and possibly also the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum. The term is also used within the context of climate change to describe sudden climate change that is detectable over the time-scale of a human lifetime. Such a sudden climate change can be the result of feedback loops within the climate system or tipping points in the climate system. Scientists may use different timescales when speaking of abrupt events. For example, the duration of the onset of the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum may have been anywhere between a few decades and several thousand years. In comparison, climate models predict that under ongoing greenhouse gas emissions, the Earth's near surface temperature could...
Climate variability includes all the variations in the climate that last longer than individual weather events, whereas the term climate change only refers to those variations that persist for a longer period of time, typically decades or more. Climate change may refer to any time in Earth's history, but the term is now commonly used to describe contemporary climate change, often popularly referred to as global warming. Since the Industrial Revolution, the climate has increasingly been affected by human activities. The climate system receives nearly all of its energy from the sun and radiates energy to outer space. The balance of incoming and outgoing energy and the passage of the energy through the climate system is Earth's energy budget. When the incoming energy is greater than the outgoing energy, Earth's energy budget is positive and the climate system is warming. If more energy goes out, the energy budget is negative and Earth experiences cooling. The energy moving through Earth's climate system finds expression in weather, varying on geographic scales and time. Long-term averages and variability of weather in a region constitute the region's climate. Such changes can be the result...
The climate of Tunisia is Mediterranean in the north, with mild rainy winters and hot, dry summers. The south of the country is desert. The terrain in the north is mountainous, which, moving south, gives way to a hot, dry central plain. The south is semiarid, and merges into the Sahara. A series of salt lakes, known as chotts or shatts, lie in an east-west line at the northern edge of the Sahara, extending from the Gulf of Gabes into Algeria. The lowest point of the Tunisian landscape is located at Chott el Djerid, which stands at 17 metres below sea level and the highest point is Jebel ech Chambi, at 1,544 metres above sea level.  Geography  Tunisia's climate is affected by various types of wind due to its geographical location: the northern coast is exposed to moderate and humid sea winds blowing from southern France, resulting in a significant decrease in temperatures and an increase in rainfall. In the south of the country, there are hot and dry continental winds, such as the Chergui wind, which blows over large desert areas causing a sudden rise in temperatures and a clear dry atmosphere. The country also benefits from a high amount of sunshine, exceeding...
The Younger Dryas was the final climatic phase of the Last Glacial Period that occurred from around 12,900 to 11,700 years Before Present . It is primarily known for the sudden or abrupt cooling in the Northern Hemisphere, when the North Atlantic Ocean cooled and annual air temperatures decreased by around 3 C over North America, 2-6 C in Europe and up to 10 C in Greenland, in a few decades. Cooling in Greenland was particularly rapid, taking place over just 3 years or less. At the same time, the Southern Hemisphere experienced warming. This period ended as rapidly as it began, with dramatic warming over around 50 years, the transition from the glacial Pleistocene epoch into the current Holocene interglacial. The Younger Dryas onset was not fully synchronized in the tropics, the cooling was spread out over several centuries, and the same was true of the early-Holocene warming. Even in the Northern Hemisphere, temperature change was highly seasonal, with much colder winters, cooler springs, yet no change or even slight warming during the summer. Substantial changes in precipitation also took place, with...
Svalbard is a Norwegian archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. The climate of Svalbard is principally a result of its latitude, which is between 74 and 81 north. Climate is defined by the World Meteorological Organization as the average weather over a 30-year period. The North Atlantic Current moderates Svalbard's temperatures, particularly during winter, giving it up to 20 C higher winter temperature than similar latitudes in continental Russia and Canada. This keeps the surrounding waters open and navigable most of the year. The interior fjord areas and valleys, sheltered by the mountains, have fewer temperature differences than the coast, with about 2 C lower summer temperatures and 3 C higher winter temperatures. On the south of the largest island, Spitsbergen, the temperature is slightly higher than further north and west. During winter, the temperature difference between south and north is typically 5 C, and about 3 C in summer. Bear Island has average temperatures even higher than the rest of the archipelago. Svalbard is located in between two ocean currents - the warm Atlantic West Spitsbergen Current and the cold Arctic East Spitsbergen Current. These currents...
The climate of Serbia is between a continental climate in the north, with cold dry winters, and warm, humid summers with well distributed rainfall patterns, and a more Mediterranean climate in the south with hot, dry summers and autumns and average relatively cool and more rainy winters with heavy mountain snowfall. Differences in elevation, proximity to the Adriatic Sea and Aegean Sea and large river basins, as well as exposure to the winds account for climate differences. Most of Northern Serbia possesses a typical continental climate, with air masses from northern and western Europe which shape its climatic profile. South and South-east of Serbia is subject to strong Mediterranean influences . However, the Dinaric Alps and other mountain ranges contribute to the cooling down a large part of the warm air masses. Winters are quite harsh in Raka because of the mountains which encircle the plateau. One of the climatic features of Serbia is Koava, a cold and very squally southeastern wind which starts in the Carpathian Mountains and follows the Danube northwest through the Iron Gate where it gains a jet effect and continues to Belgrade...
A developing country is a country with a less-developed industrial base and a lower Human Development Index relative to developed countries. However, this definition is not universally agreed upon. There is also no clear agreement on which countries fit this category. The terms low-and middle-income country and newly emerging economy are often used interchangeably but they refer only to the economy of the countries. The World Bank classifies the world's economies into four groups, based on gross national income per capita: high-, upper-middle-, lower-middle-, and low-income countries. Least developed countries, landlocked developing countries, and small island developing states are all sub-groupings of developing countries. Countries on the other end of the spectrum are usually referred to as high-income countries or developed countries. There are controversies over the terms' use, as some feel that it perpetuates an outdated concept of us and them. In 2015, the World Bank declared that the developingdeveloped world categorization had become less relevant and that they would phase out the use of that descriptor. Instead, their reports will present data aggregations...
Central Asia is a region of Asia consisting of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and most of Kazakhstan. The countries as a group are also colloquially referred to as the -stans as all have names ending with the Persian suffix -stan in both respective native languages and most other languages. The region is bounded by the Caspian Sea to the southwest, European Russia to the northwest, China and Mongolia to the east, Iran and Indian subcontinent to the south, and Siberia to the north. Together, the five Central Asian countries have a total population of around 76 million. In the pre-Islamic and early Islamic eras , Central Asia was inhabited predominantly by Iranian peoples, populated by Eastern Iranian-speaking Bactrians, Sogdians, Chorasmians, and the semi-nomadic Scythians and Dahae. As the result of Turkic migration, Central Asia also became the homeland for the Kazakhs, Kyrgyzs, Tatars, Turkmens, Uyghurs, and Uzbeks Turkic languages largely replaced the Iranian languages spoken in the area, with the exception of Tajikistan and areas where Tajik is spoken. The Silk Road trade routes crossed through Central Asia, leading to...
Climate change and civilizational collapse refers to a hypothetical risk that the negative impacts of climate change might reduce global socioeconomic complexity to the point that complex human civilization effectively ends around the world, with humanity reduced to a less developed state. This hypothetical risk is typically associated with the idea of a massive reduction of the human population caused by the direct and indirect impacts of climate change, as well as a permanent reduction of Earth's carrying capacity. Finally, it is sometimes suggested that a civilizational collapse caused by climate change would soon lead to human extinction. Some researchers connect historical examples of societal collapse with adverse changes in local andor global weather patterns. In particular, the 4.2-kiloyear event, a millennial-scale megadrought which took place in Africa and Asia between 5,000 and 4,000 years ago, has been linked with the collapse of the Old Kingdom in Egypt, the Akkadian Empire in Mesopotamia, the Liangzhu culture in the lower Yangtze River area and the Indus Valley Civilization. In Europe, the General Crisis of the Seventeenth Century, which was defined by events such as...
Geoengineering also known as climate engineering or climate intervention is the deliberate large-scale interventions in the Earth's climate system intended to counteract human-caused climate change. The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal and solar radiation modification . CDR involves techniques to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is generally considered a form of climate change mitigation. SRM aims to reduce global warming by reflecting a small portion of sunlight away from Earth and back into space. Although historically grouped together, these approaches differ substantially in mechanisms, timelines, and risk profiles, and are now typically discussed separately. Some other large-scale engineering proposals-such as interventions to slow the melting of polar and alpine ice-are also sometimes classified as forms of geoengineering. Some types of geoengineering present political, social and ethical issues. One common objection is that focusing on these technologies could undermine efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Effective governance and international oversight are widely regarded...
This glossary of climate change is a list of definitions of terms and concepts relevant to climate change, global warming, and related topics. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change use tens of acronyms and initialisms in documents relating to climate change policy.  0-9  100,000-year problem The apparent discrepancy between the climate response and the forcing from the amount of incoming solar radiation.  A  adaptation Any adjustment in natural or human systems in response to a changing or changed climate. additionality In the context of a project funded by carbon offsets, the additionality is the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that is in addition to what would have resulted in the absence of the carbon offset funding. albedo An index of the reflectiveness of a surface a way of quantifying how much radiation is reflected back, as opposed to absorbed. Objects or surfaces with low albedo absorb most of the radiation directed toward them, and those with high albedo reflect most of it. anoxic event A period when the Earth's oceans have no oxygen below the...
The province of Sindh is situated in a tropical region, with subtropical regions in the northern sections it is hot, humid and very rainy in the summer and cold and dry in winter. Temperatures frequently rise above 46 C between May and August, and the minimum average temperature of 2 C occurs during December and January. The annual rainfall averages about nearly 13 inches , falling mainly during June and September. The southwesterly monsoon wind begins to blow in mid-February and continues until the end of September, whereas the cool northerly wind blows during the winter months from October to January. Sindh lies between the two monsoons - the southwest monsoon from the Indian Ocean and the northeast or retreating monsoon, deflected towards it by the Himalayan mountains - and escapes the influence of both. The average rainfall in Sindh is 11-14 in per year. The region's relative scarcity of rainfall is compensated by the inundation of the Indus twice a year, caused by the spring and summer melting of Himalayan snow and by rainfall in the monsoon season. These natural patterns have recently changed somewhat with the construction of dams and barrages...
The United Kingdom's climate is changing, with hotter drier summers and warmer wetter winters. Storms, floods, droughts and heatwaves are becoming more frequent and intense, and sea level rise is affecting coastal areas. The UK is also a contributor to climate change, having emitted more greenhouse gas per person than the world average. Climate change is having economic effects on the UK and presents risks to human health and ecosystems. The UK has more than halved its greenhouse gas emissions since 1990, and under the Paris Agreement has committed to net zero emissions by 2050, via a series of carbon budgets. Parliament passed Acts related to climate change in 2006 and 2008, the latter being the first time a government legally mandated a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The UK Climate Change Programme was established in 2000 and the Climate Change Committee provides policy advice towards mitigation targets. In 2019, Parliament declared a 'climate change emergency'. The country phased out coal power in 2024. The UK has been prominent in international cooperation on climate change, including through UN conferences and during its European Union membership. Climate change has been...
The Climate Coalition is an organisation dedicated to action against climate change in the United Kingdom.  Overview  The Climate Coalition is the operating name of the registered charity The Climate Movement. Along with its sister organisations Stop Climate Chaos Cymru and Stop Climate Chaos Scotland, the group includes over 130 organisations - including the National Trust, Women's Institute, Oxfam, the Salvation Army, and the RSPB. It holds two main annual campaigns: Show The Love and Speak Up Week, as well as the Green Heart Hero Awards.  History  The Climate Coalition was founded in 2005. It was originally called Stop Climate Chaos. By 2015, the organisation had gained celebrity endorsement, and the first Show The Love campaign was backed by Ridley Scott, Stephen Fry, Dermot O'Leary, Alison Steadman, Raymond Blanc, Meera Syal and others. This contributed to UK political leaders promising to tackle climate change. It held a climate rally on 26 June 2019, with over 12,000 arriving at Parliament to tell their representatives urgent action is needed.  See also  UK Youth Climate Coalition  References   External links  Official website The Climate Movement, registered...
Climate Alliance was founded in 1990 as a network of cities, towns, municipalities and counties located either in Europe or the Amazon Basin, committed to the protection of the world's climate. The current 2,009 members form Europe's largest city network taking local action on the global climate crisis. The European Secretariat of Climate Alliance is based in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, Berlin, Germany and in Brussels, Belgium. The members of Climate Alliance are located in Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, North Macedonia, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Ukraine.  Purpose and aims  Climate Alliance comprise some 2,000 members from more than 25 countries, as of December 2025. Each member aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at their source. Their allies are the indigenous peoples of the rainforests. The indigenous partners are represented by COICA, the Coordination of Indigenous Organisations of the nine neighbouring countries of the Amazon Basin. By joining Climate Alliance, cities and municipalities embrace...
Tuvalu is an archipelagic country in the Polynesian sub-region of Oceania in the Pacific Ocean, about midway between Hawaii and Australia. It lies east-northeast of the Santa Cruz Islands , northeast of Vanuatu, southeast of Nauru, south of Kiribati, west of Tokelau, northwest of Samoa and Wallis and Futuna, and north of Fiji. Tuvalu is composed of three reef islands and six atolls spread out between the latitude of 5 and 10 south and between the longitude of 176 and 180. They lie west of the International Date Line. The 2022 census determined that Tuvalu had a population of 10,643, making it the 194th most populous country and also the 2nd least populated country in the United Nations, exceeding only Niue and the Vatican City in population. Tuvalu's total land area is 25.14 square kilometres . It is the 4th smallest country in the world, the only smaller nations being Monaco, Nauru and Vatican City. The first inhabitants of Tuvalu were Polynesians arriving as part of the migration of Polynesians into the Pacific that began about three thousand years ago. Scholars believe that the Polynesians spread out from Samoa and...
Climate is a song by American rappers BigthaPlug and Offset from the former's EP The Biggest . Produced by Bandplay and Charley Cooks, it contains a sample of Is That Enough by Marvin Gaye. The song debuted and peaked at number 48 on the Billboard Hot RBHip-Hop Songs chart.  Composition and critical reception  Zachary Horvath of HotNewHipHop wrote a positive review, stating that the rappers' aggressive flow patterns are perfect compliments  and Production is also a strong point here with its watery and plucky synths and banging trap percussion.  Charts   Certifications   References 
The Mars Climate Orbiter was a robotic space probe launched by NASA on December 11, 1998, to study the Martian climate, Martian atmosphere, and surface changes and to act as the communications relay in the Mars Surveyor '98 program for Mars Polar Lander. However, on September 23, 1999, communication with the spacecraft was permanently lost as it went into orbital insertion. The spacecraft encountered Mars on a trajectory that brought it too close to the planet, and it was destroyed in the atmosphere. An investigation attributed the failure to a measurement mismatch between two measurement systems: SI units by NASA and US customary units by spacecraft builder Lockheed Martin.  Mission background   History  After the loss of Mars Observer and the onset of the rising costs associated with the future International Space Station, NASA began seeking less expensive, smaller probes for scientific interplanetary missions. In 1994, the Panel on Small Spacecraft Technology was established to set guidelines for future miniature spacecraft. The panel determined that the new line of miniature spacecraft should be under 1,000 kg 2,200 lb...
A climate emergency declaration is an action taken by governments and scientists to acknowledge humanity is in a climate crisis. The first such declaration was made by a local government in December 2016. Since then, over 2,100 local governments in 39 countries have made climate emergency declarations as of May 2022. Populations covered by jurisdictions that have declared a climate emergency amount to over 1 billion citizens. On 29 April 2019, the Welsh Government declared a climate emergency, which was subsequently passed by its parliament, the Senedd, on 1 May 2019, when it became the fourth country in the world to officially declare a climate emergency. On 09 May 2019, the Irish Government and Parliament declared national Climate and Biodiversity Emergency, the first state to do so, following the lead and request of the County Wicklow local community and local authority . Although commonly reported in the media as the second state in the world to declare Climate Emergency, after UK, to declare, this is inaccurate, as UK parliament has never ratified the opposition motion declaring emergency. Once a government makes a declaration,...
The climate of Verkhoyansk is sharply continental with extremely frosty long winters and warm short summers. There is little precipitation - 150-200 mm, which is comparable to the amount of precipitation in deserts. Frosts are possible all year round, including summer. The lowest temperature recorded in Verkhoyansk is -67.6 C, the absolute minimum temperature in the northern hemisphere  The highest temperature recorded in Verkhoyansk is 38 C, the absolute maximum temperature in the Arctic. The city is considered a pole of cold and a populated area with the most extreme temperature fluctuations. In this area, temperature inversions are constantly forming in winter due to the extremely cold and dense air of the Asian anticyclone in deep depressions, so that the temperature increases rather than decreases with increasing altitude.  General climatic and phenological characteristics of the months of the year  For each month, there is a specific characteristic corresponding to the temperature regime of that month.: January - an extremely frosty month with an average monthly temperature of about -42..49 C. Precipitation...
The subnivean climate and of snow and English -an. is the environment between fallen snow and terrain. This is the environment of many hibernal animals, as it provides insulation and protection from predators. The subnivean climate is formed by three different types of snow metamorphosis: destructive metamorphosis, which begins when snow falls constructive metamorphosis, the movement of water vapor to the surface of the snowpack and melt metamorphosis, the meltingsublimation of snow to water vapor and its refreezing in the snowpack. These three types of metamorphosis transform individual snowflakes into ice crystals and create spaces under the snow where small animals can move.  Subnivean fauna  Subnivean fauna includes small mammals such as mice, voles, shrews, and lemmings that must rely on winter snow cover for survival. These mammals move under the snow for protection from heat loss and some predators. In winter regions that do not have permafrost, the subnivean zone maintains a temperature of close to 32 F regardless of the temperature above the snow cover, once the snow cover has reached a depth of six inches or...
The Deutsches Klima-Konsortium e. V. is located in Berlin, Germany, and represents the leading players of German climate and climate impact research encompassing 26 renowned research organisations. The federation is also an important international partner acting as a guidepost, strategic partner, project partner and information broker.  Members  Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research Berlin University Alliance Center for Earth System Research and Sustainability at the University of Hamburg Cluster of Excellence The Future Ocean at the Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel Federal Agency for Cartography and Geodesy GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel Institute of Atmospheric Physics at the German Aerospace Center German Climate Computing Centre German Environment Agency German National Meteorological Service Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research Helmholtz-Zentrum Geesthacht, Centre for Materials and Coastal Research Helmholtz Centre Potsdam, German Research Centre for Geosciences Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies IASS...
The climate of Miami is classified as having a tropical monsoon climate with hot and humid summers short, warm winters and a marked drier season in the winter. Its sea-level elevation, coastal location, position just north of the Tropic of Cancer, and proximity to the Gulf Stream shape its climate. With January averaging 68.6 F , winter features warm temperatures cool air usually settles after the passage of a cold front, which produces much of the little rainfall. Lows sometimes fall to or below 50 F , with an average 3 such occurrences annually, but rarely 40 F  from 1981 to 2010, temperatures reached that level in only eight calendar years. Highs generally reach 70 F or higher, and fail to do so on only an average of 12 days annually. The Rainy season officially begins May 15th and continues until October 15th. During this period, highs are in the mid 80s to mid 90s , accompanied by high humidity, though the heat is often relieved by afternoon thunderstorms or a sea breeze that develops off the Atlantic Ocean, which then allow lower temperatures, but conditions still remain very muggy. Much of the year's 67.41 inches of rainfall...
Climate Week NYC is a charity event that takes place in New York City every year. Its purpose is to promote climate action by appealing to business leaders, political change makers, local decision takers and civil society representatives. Climate Week NYC is run by Climate Group. It is the largest of the organization's annual flagship international events, and the largest annual climate event of its kind according to the organizers.  History  The first Climate Week NYC took place in 2009. The summit is held alongside the United Nations General Assembly, allowing heads of state and other senior governmental figures to attend and participate. Climate Week NYC considers itself the largest annual climate event of its kind. It was described by the New York Times as the 'Burning Man for Climate Geeks'. Climate Week NYC also creates a platform for some 600 bigger and smaller events across the City of New York, led by people and organisations that support climate action. Over the years, many influential leaders have participated in Climate Week NYC, including New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern as well as the Presidents of Haiti, Peru and the Marshall Islands. John Kerry, US Secretary...
Climate change education is education that aims to address and develop effective responses to climate change. It helps learners understand the causes and consequences of climate change, prepares them to live with the impacts of climate change and empowers learners to take appropriate actions to adopt more sustainable lifestyles. Climate change and climate change education are global challenges that can be anchored in the curriculum in order to provide local learning and widen up mindset shifts on how climate change can be mitigated. In such a case, CCE is more than climate change literacy, but understanding ways of dealing with climate. CCE helps policymakers understand the urgency and importance of putting mechanisms into place to combat climate change on a national and global scale. Communities learn about how climate change will affect them, what they can do to protect themselves from negative consequences, and how they can reduce their own carbon footprint. In particular, CCE helps increase the resilience of already vulnerable communities who are the most likely to be adversely affected by climate change. CCE is rooted in Education for sustainable development . 2...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 618 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Microsoft, a tech company historically known for its opposition to the open source software paradigm, turned to embrace the approach in the 2010s. From the 1970s through the 2000s under CEOs Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer, Microsoft viewed the community creation and sharing of communal code, later to be known as free and open source software, as a threat to its business, and both executives spoke negatively against it. In the 2010s, as the industry turned towards cloud, embedded, and mobile computing-technologies powered by open source advances-CEO Satya Nadella led Microsoft towards open source adoption although Microsoft's traditional Windows business continued to grow throughout this period generating revenues of 26.8 billion in the third quarter of 2018, while Microsoft's Azure cloud revenues nearly doubled. Microsoft open sourced some of its code, including the .NET Framework, and made investments in Linux development, server technology, and organizations, including the Linux Foundation and Open Source Initiative. Linux-based operating systems power the company's Azure cloud services. Microsoft acquired GitHub, the largest host for open source project infrastructure, in 2018. Microsoft...
OpenSearch is a family of software consisting of a search engine , and OpenSearch Dashboards, a data visualization dashboard for that search engine. It is an open-source project developed by the OpenSearch Software Foundation written primarily in Java. As of 2025, the project had surpassed one billion software downloads. AWS previously reported that OpenSearch had tens of thousands of customers, while Elastic claimed to have over 20,000 subscribers.  History  The project was created in 2021 by Amazon Web Services as a fork of Elasticsearch and Kibana after Elastic NV changed the license of new versions of this software away from the open-source Apache License in favour of the Server Side Public License . Amazon would hold sole ownership status and write access to the source code repositories, but invited pull requests from anyone. Other companies such as Logz.io, CrateDB, Red Hat and others announced an interest in building or joining a community to continue using and maintaining this open-source software. On September 16, 2024, the Linux Foundation and Amazon Web Services announced the creation of the OpenSearch Software...
This article presents a timeline of events related to popular freeopen-source software. For a narrative explaining the overall development, see the related history of free and open-source software. The Achievements column documents achievements a project attained at some point in time not necessarily when it was first released.  1970s   1980s   1990s   2000s  By the 2000s the number of open source software packages in wide use was so large that it would be infeasible to make a definitive list.  2010s   2020s   See also  History of free and open-source software List of free and open-source software packages Timeline of programming languages - many programming languages are open source Timeline of operating systems - quite a few operating systems are open source Timeline of Linux adoption Timeline of the open-access movement History of Linux Linux kernel  History  References   External links  A brief history of open-source software
An open-source video game, or simply an open-source game, is a video game whose source code is open-source. They are often freely distributable and sometimes cross-platform compatible.  Definition and differentiation  Not all open-source games are free software some open-source games contain proprietary non-free content. Open-source games that are free software and contain exclusively free content conform to DFSG, free culture, and open content and are sometimes called free games. Many Linux distributions require for inclusion that the game content is freely redistributable, freeware or commercial restriction clauses are prohibited.  Background  In general, open-source games are developed by relatively small groups of people in their free time, with profit not being the main focus. Many open-source games are volunteer-run projects, and as such, developers of free games are often hobbyists and enthusiasts. The consequence of this is that open-source games often take longer to mature, are less common and often lack the production value of commercial titles. In the 1990s a challenge to build high-quality content for games was the missing availability or the excessive price for...
The Shared Source Initiative is a source-available software licensing scheme launched by Microsoft in May 2001. The program includes a spectrum of technologies and licenses, and most of its source code offerings are available for download after eligibility criteria are met.  Overview  Microsoft's Shared Source Initiative allows individuals and organizations to access Microsoft's source code for reference e.g. when developing complementary systems, for review and auditing from a security perspective mostly wanted by some large corporations and governments, and for development academic institutions, individual developers, OEMs, ODMs, OBMs, IHVs, IBVs, ISVs. For example, higher-level OEMs, such as Dell, HP and Nokia, can get more source code of Microsoft Windows. As part of the framework, Microsoft released 5 licenses for general use. Two of them, Microsoft Public License and Microsoft Reciprocal License, have been approved by the Open Source Initiative as open source licenses and are regarded by the Free Software Foundation as free software licenses. Other shared source licenses are proprietary, and thus allow the copyright holder to retain tighter control over the use...
The Business Source License is a software license which publishes source code but limits the right to use the software to certain classes of users. The BUSL is not an open-source license, but is a source-available license that also mandates an eventual transition to an open-source license. This characteristic has been described as a compromise between traditional proprietary licenses and open source. The originator of the BUSL is MariaDB plc, where it is used for the MaxScale product, not for the flagship MariaDB.  Terms  The Business Source License requires the work to be relicensed to a Change License at the Change Date. The Change License must be a license which is compatible with GPL version 2.0 or later. The Change Date must be four years or sooner from the publication date of the work being licensed. The Business Source License by default restricts production use. The license allows copyright owners to specify an Additional Use Grant. In a 2020 survey of adoption of this license, open source developer and entrepreneur Adam Retter summarized this: Additional Use Grant The BUSL by default prohibits production use of the software. This...
The Journal of Open Source Software is a peer-reviewed open-access scientific journal covering open-source software from any research discipline. The journal was founded in 2016 by editors Arfon Smith, Kyle Niemeyer, Dan Katz, Kevin Moerman, and Karthik Ram. The editor-in-chief is Arfon Smith . The journal is a sponsored project of NumFOCUS and an affiliate of the Open Source Initiative. The journal uses GitHub as publishing platform. The journal was established in May 2016 and in its first year published 111 articles. It has been discussed by its editors in several peer-reviewed papers which describe its publishing model and its effectiveness.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Astrophysics Data System and in the DBLP computer science bibliography online database.  References   Further reading  Publishing Open Source Research Software in JOSS - an experience report. ivory.idyll.org. In which journals should I publish my software?. www.software.ac.uk. Software Sustainability Institute.  External links  Official website
Not open sourced software architecture. For open source computer aided design tools see: LibreCAD, FreeCAD. Open Source Architecture, sometimes referred to as OSArc, is architecture where the structure's design documentation uses some form of open-source licensing, that often uses a modular design system, and seeks community collaboration and use. The concept began to appear in the early 2000s and was first applied to a built project's design in 2005. Many open source architectural projects are aligned with public interest design principles. They are often motivated, in part, to address high costs and shortages of housing and structures for social development, such as schools and health facilities. Open source architecture draws upon a number of preceding and adjacent concepts including: vernacular architecture, citizen centered design, peer production, do it yourself practices, modular building, open source licensing, open source software, open source hardware, and the open-design movement.  History   2000s  Open source architecture arose after the emergence of the open source software movement in the 1980s -1990s, the open source hardware movements in the 1990s-2000s, and...
The hacker culture is a subculture of individuals who enjoy-often in collective effort-the intellectual challenge of creatively overcoming the limitations of software systems or electronic hardware , to achieve novel and clever outcomes. The act of engaging in activities in a spirit of playfulness and exploration is termed hacking. However, the defining characteristic of a hacker is not the activities performed themselves , but how it is done and whether it is exciting and meaningful. Activities of playful cleverness can be said to have hack value and therefore the term hacks came about, with early examples including pranks at MIT done by students to demonstrate their technical aptitude and cleverness. The hacker culture originally emerged in academia in the 1960s around the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Tech Model Railroad Club and MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. Hacking originally involved entering restricted areas in a clever way without causing any major damage. Some famous hacks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology were placing of a campus police cruiser...
A software license is a legal instrument governing the use or redistribution of software. Since the 1970s, software copyright has been recognized in the United States. Despite the copyright being recognized, most companies prefer to sell licenses rather than copies of the software because it enables them to enforce stricter terms on redistribution. Very few purchasers read any part of the license, initially shrink-wrap contracts and now most commonly encountered as clickwrap or browsewrap. The enforceability of this kind of license is a matter of controversy and is limited in some jurisdictions. Service-level agreements are another type of software license where the vendor agrees to provide a level of service to the purchaser, often backed by financial penalties. Copyleft is a type of license that mandates derivative works to be licensed under the license's terms. Copyleft licenses are free and open source licenses. Attempts have been made to describe licenses which do not uphold the Four Freedoms, such as the Server Side Public License and others, as copyleft, but this is widely rejected as an abuse of the term. The other types of free licenses lack this requirement: for permissive...
This is a list of notable software packages which were published as free and open-source software, or into the public domain, but were made proprietary software, or otherwise switched to a license that is not considered to be free and open source.  See also  List of formerly proprietary software  References 
The Open Software License is a software license created by Lawrence Rosen. The Open Source Initiative has certified it as an open-source license, but the Debian project judged version 1.1 to be incompatible with the DFSG. The OSL is a copyleft license, with a termination clause triggered by filing a lawsuit alleging patent infringement. Many people in the free software and open-source community feel that software patents are harmful to software, and are particularly harmful to open-source software. The OSL attempts to counteract that by creating a pool of software which a user can use if that user does not harm it by attacking it with a patent lawsuit.  Key features   Patent action termination clause  The OSL has a termination clause intended to dissuade users from filing patent infringement lawsuits: 10 Termination for Patent Action. This License shall terminate automatically and You may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to You by this License as of the date You commence an action, including a cross-claim or counterclaim, against Licensor or any licensee alleging that the Original Work infringes a patent. This termination provision shall not apply for...
The use of free software instead of proprietary software can give institutions better control over information technology, i.e. digital sovereignty. A growing number of public institutions have started a transition to free-software solutions, facing different challenges in this process. This grants independence and can also address the often-argued need for public access to publicly funded developments. See also : List of Linux adopters and List of BSD adopters  Asia   India   Assam  In 2009, the Government of Assam state made open source a part of its State IT Policy of 2009. While not mandated, its use is encouraged, and emphasis are given to companies who use FOSS during partnership.  Kerala  The Government of Kerala, India, announced its official support for FreeOpen-Source software in its State IT Policy of 2001. This was formulated after the first-ever free-software conference in India, Freedom First!, held in July 2001 in Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala, where Richard Stallman inaugurated the Free Software Foundation of India. Kerala's Government's support for Free Software in 2001 is perhaps the earliest instance of a Government supporting the use...
The Open Source Security Foundation is a cross-industry forum for collaborative improvement of open-source software security. Part of the Linux Foundation, the OpenSSF works on various technical and educational initiatives to improve the security of the open-source software ecosystem.  History  The OpenSSF was formed in August 2020 as the successor to the Core Infrastructure Initiative, another Linux Foundation project. In October 2021, Brian Behlendorf was announced as the OpenSSF's first full-time general manager. In May 2023, OpenSSF announced Omkhar Arasaratnam as its new general manager, and Behlendorf became CTO of the organization.  Activity   Working groups and projects  The OpenSSF houses various initiatives under its 10 current working groups. The OpenSSF also houses two projects: the code signing and verification service Sigstore and Alpha-Omega, a large-scale effort to improve software supply chain security.  Policy  The White House held a meeting on software security with government and private sector stakeholders on January 13, 2022. In May 2022, the OpenSSF hosted a follow-up meeting, the Open Source Software Security Summit II, where participants...
This is a list of notable enterprise resource planning software. The first section is devoted to free and open-source software, and the second is for proprietary software.  Free and open-source ERP software   Proprietary ERP vendors and software   See also  List of project management software ERP system selection methodology Comparison of accounting software Inventory  References 
Fenghuadian Township is a rural township located in Cang County, Cangzhou, Hebei, China. According to the 2010 census, Fenghuadian Township had a population of 40,350, including 20,690 males and 19,660 females. The population was distributed as follows: 7,485 people aged under 14, 29,521 people aged between 15 and 64, and 3,344 people aged over 65.  See also  List of township-level divisions of Hebei  References 
Ishidatrechus is a genus in the ground beetle family Carabidae. There are at least two described species in Ishidatrechus.  Species  These two species belong to the genus Ishidatrechus: Ishidatrechus jianensis Li  Chen, 1990 Ishidatrechus nitidus Ueno, 1956  References 
Elwell Stephen Otis was a United States Army general who served in the American Civil War, Indian Wars, the Philippines late in the Spanish-American War and during the Philippine-American War.  Biography  Otis was born in Frederick, Maryland on March 25, 1838. He attended the University of Rochester, where he was a member of the Iota chapter of St. Anthony Hall aka the Fraternity of Delta Psi. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1860 and was practicing law during the first year of the Civil War.  Civil War  During the American Civil War, Otis was appointed captain in the 140th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment formed in Rochester, NY in September 1862. He fought at the battles of Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville and Gettysburg. On December 23, 1863, he was promoted to lieutenant colonel of his regiment. At the Battle of Spotsylvania the regiment's colonel was killed and Otis assumed command. He fought in all the battles of the Overland Campaign. During the Siege of Petersburg, he assumed command of the 1st Brigade, 2nd Division in V Corps leading it into action at the Battle of Peebles' Farm. During this battle he was severely wounded...
The Rink is the original Broadway cast recording of the 1984 musical of the same name, released by Polydor Records in the same year. The album preserves John Kander and Fred Ebb's score, performed by the starring duo of Chita Rivera and Liza Minnelli. The musical centers on the fraught relationship between Anna, who is selling the roller rink she owns, and her estranged daughter, Angel, who returns home. The recording captures the show's exploration of generational conflict, nostalgia, and reconciliation through numbers ranging from the wistful Colored Lights to the explosive The Rink. Upon its release, the cast album was met with a mixed critical response. While the performances of its stars were widely acknowledged, some reviewers found the score to be less innovative than the songwriters' previous work and noted that it did not fully showcase the talents of its legendary leads.  Background  The Rink is a Broadway musical with music by John Kander, lyrics by Fred Ebb, and a book by Terrence McNally. Starring Chita Rivera as Anna Antonelli and Liza Minnelli as her daughter, Angel, the show centers on their strained relationship as Angel returns home to find her mother closing...
Donna J. Cox is an American artist and scientist, Michael Aiken Endowed Chair Professor of Art  Design Director, Advanced Visualization Lab at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  Director, Visualization and Experimental Technologies at National Center for Supercomputing Applications  and Director, edream Illinois Emerging Digital Research and Education in Arts Media Institute. She is a recognized pioneer in computer art and scientific visualization, specifically cinematic scientific visualization.  Biography  Donna Cox received a B.A. in 1982 and a Master of Fine Arts degree in 1985, both from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. In 1985 she became a visiting assistant professor at UIUC, in 1990 associate professor at the School of Art  Design, and in 1992 a full professor. In the same period she started as an adjunct professor and Research ArtistScientist at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications in 1985, became an associate director for Education in 1989, co-director, Scientific Communications and Media Systems in 1992, Director of the Virtual Director Group in 1997 and Director, Visualization and Experimental Technologies in...
The second USS Chimo was the lead ship of her class of minelayers in the United States Navy during World War II. Chimo was built as USAMP Colonel Charles W. Bundy for the U.S. Army Mine Planter Service by Marietta Manufacturing Co., Point Pleasant, West Virginia converted at Norfolk Navy Yard acquired by the U.S. Navy on 7 April 1944 commissioned the same day and reported to the Atlantic Fleet.  Service history   Normandy invasion operations  Chimo sailed from Norfolk on 13 May 1944 for Plymouth and the Normandy beaches. She lay at anchor off Utah Beach from 7 to 19 June as flagship of Commander Minesweepers West, providing tender services to British and United States minesweeping forces as they kept lanes open for the movement of supplies vital to the invasion buildup. Between 20 June 1944 and 5 March 1945, Chimo operated from Plymouth along the coast of France at Cherbourg, bay of Saint-Brieuc, and Brest. She cleared Plymouth on 5 March for overhaul in the States and on 11 June, departed Norfolk arriving at San Diego on 3 July for voyage repairs and training.  Pacific Ocean operations  In mid-September 1945, Chimo began duty off Eniwetok, Saipan, and Okinawa...
The 2023 SBS Entertainment Awards presented by Seoul Broadcasting System , took place on December 30, 2023, at SBS Prism Tower in Sangam-dong, Mapo-gu, Seoul. The award ceremony was hosted by Lee Sang-min, Lee Hyun-i and Kim Ji-eun.  Nominations and winners  Nominations for Grand Prize were revealed on December 28, 2023.  Performances   See also  2023 KBS Entertainment Awards 2023 MBC Entertainment Awards  References   External links  Official website
South Georgia is a British island in the southern Atlantic Ocean. South Georgia may also refer to: South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, a British overseas territory centered around South Georgia South Georgia State College, in the cities of Douglas and Waycross in the U.S. state of Georgia The southern part of Georgia The southern half of the U.S. state of Georgia South Georgia , the southern region of Georgia, United States Southeast Georgia, the southeastern region of Georgia, United States Southwest Georgia, the southwestern region of Georgia, United States  See also  Georgia
Tintin - Le Temple du Soleil, subtitled Le Spectacle Musical, is a 2002 Belgian musical in two acts with music by Dirk Bross, lyrics and scenario by Seth Gaaikema and Frank van Laecke and adapted to French by Didier Van Cauwelaert, based on two of The Adventures of Tintin by Herg: The Seven Crystal Balls and Prisoners of the Sun . It is the French-language version of the Dutch show Kuifje - De Zonnetempel that premiered in 2001. It premired in Charleroi in 2002 and was scheduled for Paris in 2003 but was cancelled.  Synopsis   Act 1  An expedition of seven scientists, the Sanders-Hardiman expedition, discovers the tomb of the Incan mummy Rascar Capac and provokes the anger of the Sun God. A curse descends upon them. Meanwhile, Tintin and Snowy arrive on the train at Marlinspike, and Tintin talks to another traveller about the recent return of the expedition from Peru. He says that all will end badly, desecrating the burial chambers of the Incas like Tutankhamen's - five members of the expedition have already been mysteriously struck down. Tintin and Snowy go to Marlinspike Hall where Captain Haddock lives, and they meet Nestor the butler. He says that Haddock...
Jzef Kremer February 22, 1806, Krakw - June 2, 1875, Krakw was a Polish historian of art, philosopher, aesthetician and psychologist.  Life  He studied at Krakw, Berlin, Heidelberg and Paris. He was a professor of philosophy and rector of the Jagiellonian University in Krakw: 1847, assistant professor 1850, full professor 1865, Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy in academic year 1870-71, rector. He was a member of the Polish Academy of Learning from the day of its founding . Professor of art history and aesthetics of Academy of Fine Arts in Krakw. Kremer was the first proponent of Hegelianism in Poland. In 1843 he published the first volume of Listy z Krakowa , a dissertation in aesthetics in the Hegelian spirit , which brought him recognition and renown. Also his Wykad systematyczny filozofii vol. 1, Krakw 1849 vol. 2, Vilnius 1852, apart from the work of Karol Libelt, the first systematic textbook of philosophy in 19th-century Poland, was well received. Kremer's popularity and fame was, however, ensured primarily by his Podr do Woch Journey to Italy vols. 1-5, Vilnius...
Space Run is a tower defense video game developed by PassTech Games and published by Focus Home Interactive. It was released for Microsoft Windows on June 13, 2014, and later released for OS  and Linux. The player assumes the role of a cargo ship pilot, and must build modules and weapons to defend their cargo from attacking ships and other hazards. The game received mixed reviews from critics, and a sequel was announced in March 2016.  Gameplay  The player acts as pilot for a cargo ship, performing space runs for various corporations. The ship is a flat platform made up of hexagonal tiles. The player places weapons and modules on the tiles in order to defend the ship from enemies and hazards. Different structures have varying placement requirements, or may require more than one tile to be placed. For example, most weapons must be placed facing outward into empty space, while some require power to be supplied by an adjacent power source. Modules and weapons are built using a resource represented by a lug nut. This resource slowly accrues on its own, but destroyed targets drop varying amounts that can be collected by moving the cursor over them. Each corporation provides a different...
Mohan Pura is a neighborhood and a Union Council of Rawalpindi City of Rawalpindi District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. Adjacent to the neighborhoods of Ibrahim Nagar, Nanak Pura, and Arjun NagIt's Union Council number 36 of Rawalpindi.  References 
Lightering is the process of transferring cargo between vessels of different sizes, usually between a barge and a bulker or oil tanker. Lightering is undertaken to reduce a vessel's draft so it can enter port facilities that cannot accept large, fully loaded, ocean-going vessels. Lightering can also refer to the use of a lighter barge for any form of short-distance transport, such as to bring railroad cars across a river. In addition, lightering can refer to the process of removing oil or other hazardous chemicals from a compromised vessel to another vessel to prevent an oil spill.  History  Lightering was practiced for all types of cargo for centuries. Prior to the 19th century introduction of steamships too large to enter some of the ports they intended to serve, in which case lightering became necessary to reduce the vessels' draft sufficiently to enter the port, cargoes ranging from water to ships' stores , to gunpowder and shot, were carried from dockside to sailing ships moored in harbors and roadways. Dredging, advances in dock construction, and containerization have reduced the frequency of the practice...
Oluwafemi Daniel Balogun is a Nigerian chess player.  Chess career  In 2016, Balogun won the Africa Zone 4.4 Individual Championship, and as a result he was awarded the title FIDE Master. The following year, Balogun won this event for the second time and qualified to play in the Chess World Cup, held later in the same year in Batumi, Georgia. He was also granted the title International Master for this victory. In the Chess World Cup 2017, Balogun was defeated by World Champion Magnus Carlsen in the first round, becoming the first African to play against a reigning world champion in a competitive match. In 2021 he won the Nigerian chess championships. In the Chess World Cup 2023, he was defeated by Alexandr Predke in the first round.  References   External links  Oluwafemi Balogun rating card at FIDE Oluwafemi Balogun player profile and games at Chessgames.com
Blank was a British Thoroughbred racehorse and sire. He only won one race, but became a very successful sire and was British Champion sire in 1762, 1764 and 1770.  Background  Blank was a bay colt bred by the 2nd Earl of Godolphin and foaled in 1740. He was sired by Godolphin Arabian, who was an Arabian horse and three-time Champion sire. Amongst Godolphin Arabian's other progeny were Lath, Cade, and Regulus. Blank's dam was Little Mare, also known as Amorett, who was a daughter of Flying Wigg.  Racing career  Blank made his racecourse debut aged six at Newmarket in April 1746. He rarely raced and only won one race, which was a match race over three miles against Cumberland in 1748 at Newmarket.  Stud career  After retiring from racing Blank became a very successful stallion and was British Champion sire in 1762, 1764 and 1770. He stood at Grimsthorpe in Lincolnshire and his best racing progeny included Ancaster, Great Subscription Purse and 1200 Guineas Stakes winner Antinous, Doncaster Cup winner Charlotte, another Great Subscription Purse winner Chatsworth, Chrysolite, Contest, 1200 Guineas Stakes winner Foxhunter, Hyder Ally, Lycurgas, Manby, Pacolet, Jockey...
The Rural Municipality of Hanover is a rural municipality in southeastern Manitoba, Canada, located southeast of Winnipeg in Division No. 2. It is Manitoba's most populous rural municipality and fourth-most populous municipality overall behind the cities of Winnipeg, Brandon, and Steinbach as of the 2021 census.  History  The area of Hanover was part of the traditional lands of the Ojibway-speaking natives. In the summer of 1871, the federal government signed treaties with these people and relocated them to reserves such as the Roseau River Anishinabe First Nation to the south and the Brokenhead Ojibway Nation to the north. The Manitoba government set aside the East Reserve, slightly smaller than what is now the RM of Hanover, from the lands left behind for Plautdietsch-speaking Mennonites immigrants from the Russian Empire. In 1873, these Mennonites signed an agreement with the Canadian government known as the Privilegium, which guaranteed land, freedom of religion, private schools, and military exemption. The East Reserve was divided into two municipalities in the early 1880s, as most of the southern Manitoba was organizing itself into new rural municipalities. In 1880...
The Altenbeken-Kreiensen railway is part of a former long-distance route in Germany from the Ruhr area via Altenbeken, Hxter-Ottbergen, Holzminden, Kreiensen and Seesen towards Berlin. The once continuous double track main line railway is now operated as a single track east of Ottbergen. It runs through the Egge ridge and along the northern edge of the Solling hills. The section in North Rhine-Westphalia up to and including Holzminden is also known as the Egge Railway .  History  The line from Altenbeken to Godelheim was opened on 1 October 1864 by the Royal Westphalian Railway Company and extended on 10 October 1865 to Holzminden. It connected with the Brunswick Southern Railway, which was opened by the Duchy of Brunswick State Railway between Holzminden and Kreiensen on 10 October 1865, creating a link with Brunswick . To connect with the Brunswick area the line bypassed the town of Einbeck with two tunnels and a long climb. Originally the route was considered a long distance line from the Ruhr to Brunswick and Berlin. The section east of Ottbergen remained a secondary line because after Prussia's annexation of the Kingdom of Hanover in 1866...
The Mika type was made up of four distinct classes of steam tender locomotives of the Chosen Government Railway with 2-8-2 wheel arrangement. The Mika name came from the American naming system for steam locomotives, under which locomotives with 2-8-2 wheel arrangement were called Mikado in honour of the Emperor of Japan, as the first 2-8-2 locomotives in the world were built for Japan. There were four classes of the Mika type built for Sentetsu: Mikai Mikani Mikasa Mikashi Of these, the Mikasa class was by far the most numerous. The Mikasa class was also used by the privately owned West Chosen Central Railway in Korea, and some were also exported to the Central China Railway, which after the war were used by the China Railway. Following the partition of Korea, these locomotives were all divided between the Korean National Railroad in the South and the Korean State Railway in the North In addition to the four classes built for Sentetsu, Sentetsu also operated around 54 Mantetsu Mikai-class locomotives taken on loan from the South Manchuria Railway and the Manchukuo National Railway Of all Mika classes in Korea, including the 54 on...
The Egyptian language, or ancient Egyptian , is an extinct branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family that was spoken in Egypt. It is one of the earliest known written languages, first recorded in the hieroglyphic script in the late 4th millennium BC, and the longest-attested human language with a written record spanning over 5,000 years. Its classical form, known as Middle Egyptian, was the vernacular language of the Middle Kingdom of ancient Egypt, and remained the literary language of Egypt until its Christianisation during the Roman period. It is known today from a large corpus of surviving texts, which were deciphered in the early 19th century. By the time of classical antiquity, the spoken language had evolved into Demotic. By the Roman and Byzantine eras, the language later further diversified into various Coptic dialects written in the Greek alphabet. These were eventually supplanted by Arabic after the Arab conquest of Egypt, although Bohairic Coptic remains in use as the liturgical language of the Coptic Orthodox and Coptic Catholic churches.  Classification  The Egyptian language branch belongs to the Afroasiatic language family. Among the...
In linguistics, attested languages are languages that have been documented and for which the evidence has survived to the present day. Evidence may be recordings, transcriptions, literature or inscriptions. In contrast, unattested languages may be names of purported languages for which no direct evidence exists, languages for which all evidence has been lost, or hypothetical proto-languages proposed in linguistic reconstruction. Within an attested language, particular word forms directly known to have been used because they appear in the literature, inscriptions or documented speech are called attested forms. They contrast with unattested forms, which are reconstructions hypothesised to have been used based on indirect evidence . In linguistic texts, unattested forms are commonly marked with a preceding asterisk .  See also  Historical linguistics List of languages by first written accounts Spurious languages  References 
Language is the capacity for acquiring and using complex systems of communication, and a language is any specific example of such a system. Language may also refer to:  Publications  Language , a journal of the Linguistic Society of America Language , an avant garde poetry magazine Language: An Introduction to the Study of Speech, a 1921 book by linguist Edward Sapir Language: Its Nature, Development, and Origin, a 1922 book by linguist Otto Jespersen Language , a 1933 book by linguist Leonard Bloomfield Language: Introductory Readings, an introductory linguistics textbook  Music  Language , 1992 Language , 2014 Language , 2018 Language , 1994 Language , 2012 The Language , a 2013 song by Drake Language, a 1987 song by Suzanne Vega from Solitude Standing Language, a 2019 song by Betty Who from Betty  Other uses  Bad language, a subset of a language's lexicon considered impolite or offensive Juan Language , a South African rugby union player  See also  Artificial language, a language created...
Akkadian , romanized: Akkad is an East Semitic language that is attested in ancient Mesopotamia from the mid-third millennium BC until its gradual replacement in common use by Old Aramaic among Mesopotamians by the 8th century BC. Akkadian, which is the earliest documented Semitic language, is named after the city of Akkad, a major centre of Mesopotamian civilization during the Akkadian Empire . It was written using the cuneiform script, originally used for Sumerian, but also used to write multiple languages in the region including Eblaite, Hurrian, Elamite, Old Persian and Hittite. The influence of Sumerian on Akkadian went beyond just the cuneiform script owing to their close proximity, a lengthy span of contact and the prestige held by the former, Sumerian significantly influenced Akkadian phonology, vocabulary and syntax. This mutual influence of Akkadian and Sumerian has also led scholars to describe the languages as a sprachbund. Akkadian proper names are first attested in Sumerian texts in the mid-3rd millennium BC, and inscriptions ostensibly written in Sumerian but whose character...
Tibetan language may refer to: Lhasa Tibetan or Standard Tibetan, the most widely used spoken dialect Classical Tibetan, the classical language used also as a contemporary written standard Any of the other Tibetan languages  See also  Old Tibetan, the language used from the 7th to the 11th century Central Tibetan language, which forms the basis of Standard Tibetan Khams Tibetan, spoken in the south-east Amdo Tibetan, spoken in the north-east Tibetan Bhoti , various Tibetan languages
Estonian is a Uralic language, and is the official language of Estonia. Estonian is written using the Latin alphabet and is the first language of the majority of the country's population it is also an official language of the European Union. Estonian is spoken natively by about 1.1 million people: 922,000 people in Estonia and 160,000 elsewhere.  Classification  Estonian belongs to the Finnic branch of the Uralic language family. Other Finnic languages include Finnish and several endangered languages spoken around the Baltic Sea and in northwestern Russia. Estonian is typically subclassified as a Southern Finnic language, and it is the second-most-spoken language among all the Finnic languages. Alongside Finnish, Hungarian and Maltese, Estonian is one of the only four official languages of the European Union that are not Indo-European languages. In terms of linguistic morphology, Estonian has both agglutinative and fusional features. Inflectional morphology is more agglutinative with verbs. The transitional form from an agglutinating to a fusional language is a common feature of Estonian...
Coptic Bohairic Coptic: , romanized: Timetremnkmi is a dormant Afroasiatic language. It is a group of closely related Egyptian dialects, representing the most recent developments of the Egyptian language, and historically spoken by the Egyptians, starting from the third century AD in Roman Egypt. Coptic was supplanted by Arabic as the primary spoken language of Egypt following the Arab conquest of Egypt and was slowly replaced over the centuries. Coptic has no modern-day native speakers, and no fluent speakers apart from a number of priests although it remains in daily use as the liturgical language of the Coptic Orthodox Church and of the Coptic Catholic Church. It is written with the Coptic alphabet, a modified uncial form of the Greek alphabet with seven additional letters borrowed from the Demotic Egyptian script. The major Coptic dialects are Sahidic, Bohairic, Akhmimic, Fayyumic, Lycopolitan , and Oxyrhynchite. Sahidic Coptic was spoken between the cities of Asyut and Oxyrhynchus and flourished as a literary language across Egypt in the period c. 325 - c. 800 AD. The Gnostic texts in the Nag Hammadi library are primarily written in the Sahidic dialect...
hosa , formerly spelled osa and also known by its endonym isihosa, is a Bantu language, indigenous to Southern Africa and one of the official languages of South Africa and Zimbabwe. hosa is spoken as a first language by approximately 8 million people and as a second language in South Africa, particularly in Eastern Cape, Western Cape, Northern Cape and Gauteng, and also in parts of Zimbabwe and Lesotho. It has perhaps the heaviest functional load of click consonants in a Bantu language , with one count finding that 10 of basic vocabulary items contained a click.  Classification  hosa is part of the branch of Nguni languages, which also include Zulu, Southern Ndebele and Northern Ndebele, called the Zunda languages. Zunda languages effectively form a dialect continuum of variously mutually intelligible varieties. hosa is, to a large extent, mutually intelligible with Zulu and with other Nguni languages to a lesser extent. Nguni languages are, in turn, classified under the much larger abstraction of Bantu languages.  Geographical distribution  hosa is the most widely distributed African language in South Africa...
Language and Language Disturbances: Aphasic Symptom Complexes and Their Significance for Medicine and Theory of Language is a book on aphasia by Dr. Kurt Goldstein, published in 1948. In Language and Language Disturbances, Goldstein theorized that a loss of abstract processing was the core deficit in aphasia. In his work, Goldstein studied transcortical sensory aphasia , characterizing it as impaired auditory comprehension, with intact repetition and fluent speech. Goldstein studied word comprehension in patients with aphasia, theorizing that naming shows relatively little specificity to the site of lesion within the left hemisphere. Goldstein compared patients with damage restricted to the anterior portion of the left hemisphere whose difficulties are primarily a matter of production with those with exclusively posterior damage whose difficulties lie chiefly in comprehension. Goldstein cited cases where patients experienced semantic confusion and could not verbalize certain words as a result of the brain damage. In one instance, a German patient of Goldstein's who could not name a handkerchief, said instead nas'putzen .  See also  On Aphasia, a book...
Galician n, UK also g-LISS-ee-n, also known as Galego , is a Western Ibero-Romance language. Around 2.4 million people have at least some degree of competence in the language, mainly in Galicia, an autonomous community located in northwestern Spain, where it has official status along with Spanish. The language is also spoken in some border zones of the neighbouring Spanish regions of Asturias and Castile and Len, as well as by Galician migrant communities in the rest of Spain in Latin America, including Argentina and Uruguay and in Puerto Rico, the United States, Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe. Modern Galician is classified as part of the West Iberian language group, a family of Romance languages. Galician evolved locally from Vulgar Latin and developed from what modern scholars have called Galician-Portuguese. The earliest document written integrally in the local Galician variety dates back to 1230, although the subjacent Romance permeates most written Latin local charters after the High Middle Ages, being especially noteworthy in personal and place names recorded in those documents, as well as in terms originated in languages other than...
An auxiliary language is a language that is not the primary or native language of a community. It may refer to: Interlanguage, an idiolect that has been developed by a learner of a second language International auxiliary language, a planned language constructed for international communication, such as Esperanto or International Sign Zonal auxiliary language, a planned language focused on one particular region, often blending elements of somewhat related languages in that region Minority language, a secondary language that has official recognition Sacred language, also called liturgical language or initiation language, used in religious services Lingua franca, a language used to facilitate communication between groups without a common native language  See also  International Auxiliary Language Association Secret language
The Syriac language , SIRR-ee-ak Classical Syriac:  , romanized: Len Suryy, also known natively in its spoken form in early Syriac literature as Edessan , the Mesopotamian language and Aramaic , is an Eastern Middle Aramaic dialect. Classical Syriac is the academic term used to refer to the dialect's literary usage and standardization, distinguishing it from other Aramaic dialects also known as 'Syriac', 'Assyrian', or 'Syrian'. In its West-Syriac tradition, Classical Syriac is often known as len koony lit. 'the written language or the book language' or simply koony, or kowony, while in its East-Syriac tradition, it is known as len atq or sapry . It emerged during the first century AD from a local Eastern Aramaic dialect that was spoken in the ancient Neo-Assyrian kingdom and region of Osroene, centered in the city of Edessa . During the Early Christian period, it became the main literary language of various Aramaic-speaking Christian communities in the historical regions of Ancient Syria, Assyria and throughout the Near East. As a liturgical language...
Somali  s-MAH-lee, soh- Latin script: Af Soomaali, Wadaad:  , Osmanya:    is a Cushitic language belonging to wider Afroasiatic language family. Somali is spoken primarily in Greater Somalia, and the Somali diaspora as a mother tongue. It is an official language in Somalia, Somaliland, and Ethiopia. It serves as a national language in Djibouti, and is also a recognised minority language in Kenya. The language is officially written with the Somali Latin alphabet, although an Arabic alphabet and several indigenous scripts are used informally.  Classification  Somali is classified within the Cushitic branch of the Afroasiatic family, specifically, Lowland East Cushitic in addition to Afar and Saho. Somali is the best-documented of the Cushitic languages, with academic studies of the language dating back to the late 19th century.  Geographic distribution of Somali  The Somali language is spoken in Somali inhabited areas of Somalia, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Yemen and by members of the Somali diaspora. It is also spoken as an adoptive language by a few ethnic minority groups and individuals in Somali majority regions...
Hungarian, or Magyar , is a Ugric language of the Uralic language family spoken in Hungary and parts of several neighboring countries. It is the official language of Hungary and one of the 24 official languages of the European Union. Outside Hungary, it is also spoken by Hungarian communities in southern Slovakia, western Ukraine , central and western Romania , northern Serbia , northern Croatia, northeastern Slovenia , and eastern Austria . It is also spoken by Hungarian diaspora communities worldwide, especially in North America particularly the United States and Canada and Israel. With 14 million speakers, it is the Uralic family's most widely spoken language.  Classification  Hungarian is a member of the Uralic language family. Linguistic connections between Hungarian and other Uralic languages were noticed in the 1670s, and the family's existence was established in 1717. Hungarian is assigned to the Ugric branch along with the Mansi and Khanty languages of western Siberia . However, there is debate on whether that is a valid grouping...
Sumerian was the language of ancient Sumer. It is the oldest attested language, dating back to at least 3100 BC, perhaps earlier. It is a local language isolate, thus unrelated to any other known language, that was spoken exclusively in ancient Mesopotamia, in the area that is now modern-day Iraq. Sumerian is read from left to right, from the top however early inscriptions were read top to bottom from the right. Akkadian, a Semitic language, gradually replaced Sumerian as the primary spoken language in the area c. 2000 BC , but Sumerian continued to be used as a sacred, ceremonial, literary, and scientific language in Akkadian-speaking Mesopotamian states, such as Assyria and Babylonia, until the 1st century AD. Thereafter, it seems to have fallen into obscurity until the 19th century, when Assyriologists began deciphering the cuneiform inscriptions and excavated tablets that had been left by its speakers. In spite of its extinction, Sumerian exerted a significant influence on the languages of the area. The cuneiform script, originally used for Sumerian, was widely adopted by numerous regional languages such as its fellow Mesopotamian Akkadian, as well...
Odia , or Oriya, is a classical Indo-Aryan language spoken in the Indian state of Odisha. It is the official language in Odisha where native speakers make up 82 of the population, and it is also spoken in parts of West Bengal, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Odia is one of the official languages of India it is the official language of Odisha and the second official language of Jharkhand. The Odia language has various varieties, including the Baleswari Odia , Kataki, Dhenkanalia, Anugulia , Ganjami Odia , Sundargadi Odia , Sambalpuri Odia , Desia Odia and Tribal Community dialects spoken by the tribal groups in Odisha who adopted the Odia language. Odia is the sixth Indian language to be designated a classical language. It traces its linguistic roots to the Eastern Magadhi Prakrit, evolving through stages such as Proto Odia , Old Odia , Middle Odia , and Modern Odia . The language displays a distinct phonological and morphological...
Assyrian language may refer to: Ancient Assyrian language, a dialect of the ancient East Semitic Akkadian language In modern Assyrian terminology, related to Neo-Aramaic languages: Suret language, a modern West Semitic language that belongs to the Northeastern Neo-Aramaic branch Turoyo language, a modern West Semitic language, part of the Central Neo-Aramaic branch  See also  Assyria Assyrian Eastern Assyrian Western Assyrian Syrian language
Macedonian  MASS-ih-DOH-nee-n  , translit. makedonski jazik, pronounced  is an Eastern South Slavic language. It is part of the South Slavic languages, and is one of the Slavic languages, which are part of the Balto-Slavic branch and the larger Indo-European language family. Spoken as a first language by around 1.7 million people, it serves as the official language of North Macedonia. Most speakers can be found in the country and its diaspora, with a smaller number of speakers throughout the transnational region of Macedonia. Macedonian is also a recognized minority language in parts of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania, and Serbia and it is spoken by expatriate communities predominantly in Australia, Canada, and the United States. Macedonian developed out of the western dialects of the Eastern South Slavic dialect continuum, whose earliest recorded form is Old Church Slavonic. As it is part of a dialect continuum with other South Slavic languages, Macedonian has a high degree of mutual intelligibility with Bulgarian and varieties of Serbo-Croatian. The international consensus outside of Bulgaria is that Macedonian is an autonomous language...
Sinhala  SIN-h-l, SING--l Sinhala: , sihala, , sometimes called Sinhalese -LEEZ, SING--LEEZ, is an Indo-Aryan language primarily spoken by the Sinhalese people of Sri Lanka, who make up the largest ethnic group on the island, numbering about 16 million. It is also the first language of about 2 million other Sri Lankans, as of 2001. It is written in the Sinhalese script. The language has two main varieties, written and spoken, and is a notable example of the linguistic phenomenon known as diglossia. Sinhala is one of the two national languages of Sri Lanka, along with Tamil. Along with Pali, it played a major role in the development of Theravada Buddhist literature. Early forms of the Sinhalese language are attested to as early as the 3rd century BCE. The language of these inscriptions, still retaining long vowels and aspirated consonants, is a Prakrit similar to Magadhi, a regional associate of the Middle-Indian Prakrits that had been spoken during the lifetime of the Buddha. The most closely related languages to Sinhalese are the Vedda language and the Maldivian languages the former is an endangered indigenous creole still spoken by a minority...
Armenian endonym: , hayeren, pronounced  is the sole member of an independent branch in the Indo-European language family. It is the native language of the Armenian people and the official language of Armenia. Historically spoken in the Armenian highlands, today Armenian is also widely spoken throughout the Armenian diaspora. Armenian is written in its own writing system, the Armenian alphabet, introduced in 405 AD by Mesrop Mashtots. The estimated number of Armenian speakers worldwide is between five and seven million.  History   Classification and origins  Armenian is an independent branch of the Indo-European languages. It is of interest to linguists because of its distinctive phonological changes within the Indo-European family. Armenian exhibits more satemization than centumization, although it is not classified as belonging to either of these subgroups. Some linguists have proposed that Armenian, Greek , Albanian, and the Indo-Iranian languages were dialectally close to one another. Within this hypothetical dialect continuum, Proto-Armenian has been situated between Proto-Greek, traditionally classified as a centum language, and Proto...
Slovak k endonym: slovenina or slovensk jazyk , is a West Slavic language of the Czech-Slovak group, written in Latin script. It is part of the Indo-European language family, and is one of the Slavic languages, which are part of the larger Balto-Slavic branch. Spoken by approximately five million people as a native language, primarily ethnic Slovaks, it serves as the official language of Slovakia and one of the 24 official languages of the European Union. Slovak is closely related to Czech, to the point of very high mutual intelligibility, as well as to Polish. Like other Slavic languages, Slovak is a fusional language with a complex system of morphology and relatively flexible word order. Its vocabulary has been extensively influenced by Latin and German, as well as other Slavic languages.  History  The Czech-Slovak group developed within West Slavic in the high medieval period, and the standardization of Czech and Slovak within the Czech-Slovak dialect continuum emerged in the early modern period. In the later mid-19th century, the modern Slovak alphabet and written standard became codified by udovt tr and reformed by Martin...
Hausa  in Hausa: HarshenHalshen Hausa hawsa Ajami:   is a Chadic language spoken by over 94.5 million people in West Africa, primarily by the Hausa people in Niger where it is the sole official language, having replaced French in 2025 and Nigeria. It serves as a lingua franca in most of northern Nigeria, southern Niger, as well as in northern Cameroon, Ghana mainly in the north of the country, but also extensively among the Zongo communities all across the country, including in the capital, Accra, Benin and Togo, southern Chad, and parts of Sudan. Hausa also has a significant number of speakers in Cte d'Ivoire and the Central African Republic. Hausa is a member of the Afroasiatic language family and is the most widely spoken language within the Chadic branch of that family. Hausa is tonal, using relative pitch both to distinguish words, and mark grammatical categories. Ethnologue estimated that it was spoken as a first language by some 58 million people and as a second language by another 36 million, bringing the total number of Hausa speakers to an estimated 94 million. In Nigeria, the Hausa film industry is known as Kannywood.  Classification  Hausa...
Belarusian is an East Slavic language. It is one of the two official languages in Belarus, the other being Russian. It is also spoken in parts of Russia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland where it is the official language in 5 bilingual municipalities, Ukraine, and the United States by the Belarusian diaspora. Before Belarus gained independence in 1991, the language was known in English as Byelorussian or Belorussian, or alternatively as White Russian. Following independence, it became known as Belarusian, or alternatively as Belarusan. As one of the East Slavic languages, Belarusian shares many grammatical and lexical features with other members of the group. To some extent, Russian, Ukrainian, and Belarusian retain a degree of mutual intelligibility. Belarusian descends from a language generally referred to as Ruthenian , which had, in turn, descended from what is referred to as Old East Slavic . In the first Belarusian census in 1999, the Belarusian language was declared a language spoken at home by about 3,686,000 Belarusian citizens . About 6,984,000 of Belarusians declared it their mother tongue. Other...
Gujarati is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Indian state of Gujarat and spoken predominantly by the Gujarati people. Gujarati is descended from Old Gujarati . In India, it is one of the 22 scheduled languages of the Union. It is also the official language in the state of Gujarat, as well as an official language in the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. As of 2011, Gujarati is the 6th most widely spoken language in India by number of native speakers, spoken by 55.5 million speakers which amounts to about 4.5 of the total Indian population. It is the 26th most widely spoken language in the world by number of native speakers as of 2007. Gujarati, along with Meitei , hold the third place among the fastest growing languages of India, following Hindi and Kashmiri language , according to the 2011 census of India. Outside of Gujarat, Gujarati is spoken in many other parts of South Asia by Gujarati migrants, especially in Mumbai and Pakistan . Gujarati is also widely spoken in many countries outside South Asia by the Gujarati diaspora. In North America, Gujarati is one of the fastest...
Konkani , formerly Concani, is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by the Konkani people, primarily in the Konkan region, along the western coast of India. It is one of the 22 scheduled languages mentioned in the Indian Constitution, and the official language of the Indian state of Goa. It is also spoken in Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat as well as Daman, Diu  Silvassa. Konkani is a member of the Southern Indo-Aryan language group. It retains elements of Vedic structures and shows similarities with both Western and Eastern Indo-Aryan languages. The first known Konkani inscription, dated to the 2nd century AD and sometimes claimed as Old Marathi is the one at Arvalem the second oldest Konkani inscription, is one of those at Shravanabelagola, dated to between 981 AD and 1117 AD, it was wrongly touted as Old Marathi from the time it was discovered and interpreted. Other Konkani inscriptions are found scattered across the Konkan region, especially from Kurla in Bombay to Ponda, Goa. Many Konkani dialects are spoken along and beyond the Konkan region, from Damaon in the north to Karwar in the south most of which are only partially mutually intelligible with...
Khmer is an Austroasiatic language spoken natively by the Khmer people and is an official language and national language of Cambodia. The language is also widely spoken by Khmer people in Eastern Thailand and Isan, Thailand, as well as in the Southeastern and Mekong regions of Vietnam. Khmer has been influenced considerably by Sanskrit and Pali especially in the royal and religious registers, through Hinduism and Buddhism, due to Old Khmer being the language of the historical empires of Chenla and Angkor. The vast majority of Khmer speakers speak Central Khmer, the dialect of the central plain where the Khmer are most heavily concentrated. Within Cambodia, regional accents exist in remote areas but these are regarded as varieties of Central Khmer. Two exceptions are the speech of the capital, Phnom Penh, and that of the Khmer Khe in Stung Treng province, both of which differ sufficiently enough from Central Khmer to be considered separate dialects of Khmer. Outside of Cambodia, three distinct dialects are spoken by ethnic Khmers native to areas that were historically part of the Khmer Empire. The Northern Khmer dialect is spoken by over a million...
Ainu, also known as Hokkaido Ainu , is a language native to the Ainu people of the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido. It is a member of the Ainu language family, considered to be an independent language family with no academic consensus regarding its origin. Until the 20th century, the three Ainu languages - Hokkaido Ainu, Kuril Ainu, and Sakhalin Ainu - were spoken throughout Hokkaido, the southern half of the island of Sakhalin and by small communities in the Kuril Islands, up to the southern tip of Kamchatka. Following the colonization of Hokkaido, the number of Hokkaido Ainu speakers declined steadily throughout the 20th century, eventually becoming critically endangered. By 2008, only two native speakers of Ainu remained, both elderly. By 2017, Ainu was reportedly dormant. Hokkaido Ainu is now a heritage language with some native semi-speakers. The term Ainu comes from the endonym of the Ainu people, aynu , meaning 'person' or 'human'.  Speakers  Although there are estimated to be at least 30,000 Ainu people in Japan, there is a low rate of self-identification as Ainu among people with Ainu ethnic roots. The Ainu language was already endangered by...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 630 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Azure DevOps Server, formerly known as Team Foundation Server and Visual Studio Team System , is a Microsoft product that provides version control either with Team Foundation Version Control or Git, reporting, requirements management, project management for both agile software development and waterfall teams, automated builds, testing and release management capabilities. It covers the entire application lifecycle and enables DevOps capabilities. Azure DevOps can be used as a back-end to numerous integrated development environments but is tailored for Microsoft Visual Studio and Eclipse on all platforms.  On-premises vs. online  Azure DevOps is available in two different forms: on-premises and online . The latter form is called Azure DevOps Services formerly Visual Studio Online before it was renamed to Visual Studio Team Services in 2015. The cloud service is backed by the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. It uses the same code as the on-premises version of Azure DevOps, with minor modifications, and implements the most recent features. A user signs in using a Microsoft account to set up an environment, creating projects and...
The history of macOS, Apple's current Mac operating system formerly named Mac OS  until 2011 and then OS  until 2016, began with the company's project to replace its classic Mac OS. That system, up to and including its final release Mac OS 9, was a direct descendant of the operating system Apple had used in its Mac computers since their introduction in 1984. The current macOS is a UNI operating system built on technology that had been developed at NeT from the 1980s until Apple purchased the company in early 1997. macOS components derived from BSD include multiuser access, TCPIP networking, and memory protection. Although it was originally marketed as simply version 10 of Mac OS , it has a completely different codebase from Mac OS 9, as well as substantial changes to its user interface . The transition was a technologically and strategically significant one. To ease the transition for users and developers, versions 10.0 through 10.4 were able to run Mac OS 9 and its applications in the Classic Environment, a compatibility layer. macOS was first released in 1999 as Mac OS  Server 1.0, built using the technologies Apple acquired from NeT...
Commit may refer to:  Computing   Databases  Commit , a set of permanent changes in a database COMMIT , an SQL statement used to create such a changeset  Version control  Changeset, list of differences between two successive versions in a repository Commit , the operation of committing such a changeset to the repository  Microsoft Windows  Commit charge, a concept in operating system-level memory management  Others  Materiel and IT Command , the defense procurement agency of the government of The Netherlands Commit , a parliamentary motion Nicotine replacement therapy, by the trade name Commit Commit , a 19th century American variant of the French card game, Comet  See also  Commitment
Source Code Control System is a version control system designed to track changes in source code and other text files during the development of a piece of software. This allows the user to retrieve any of the previous versions of the original source code and the changes which are stored. It was originally developed at Bell Labs beginning in late 1972 by Marc Rochkind for an IBM System370 computer running OS360. A characteristic feature of SCCS is the sccsid string that is embedded into source code, and automatically updated by SCCS for each revision. This example illustrates its use in the C programming language: This string contains the file name, date, and can also contain a comment. After compilation, the string can be found in binary and object files by looking for the pattern  and can be used to determine which source code files were used during compilation. The what command is available to automate this search for version strings.  History  In 1972, Marc Rochkind developed SCCS in SNOBOL4 at Bell Labs for an IBM System370 computer running OS360 MVT. He rewrote SCCS in the C programming language for use under UNI, then running on a PDP-11, in 1973. The first...
The Wing Python IDE is a family of integrated development environments from Wingware created specifically for the Python programming language with support for editing, testing, debugging, inspectingbrowsing, and error-checking Python code. There are three versions of the IDE, each one focused on different types of users: Wing Pro - a full-featured commercial version, for professional programmers Wing Classic - same as Wing Pro but ommits AI Wing Personal - was a free version that omitted many of these features, for students and hobbyists, it was discontinued after Wing 11 and Wing 101 - a very simplified free version for teaching beginner programmers. Wing Pro provides AI-assisted development, local and remote debugging, editing with multiple key bindings, auto-completion, auto-editing, and multi-selection, source browser and code navigation, code refactoring, import management, error checking, auto-reformatting, unit testing with code coverage, version control, project management, Python environment and package management, single and multi-file search, fine-grained customization, support for Docker and LC containers, assistance for working with third-party frameworks...
A DevOps toolchain is a set or combination of tools that aid in the delivery, development, and management of software applications throughout the systems development life cycle, as coordinated by an organization that uses DevOps practices. Generally, DevOps tools fit into one or more activities, which supports specific DevOps initiatives: Plan, Create, Verify, Package, Release, Configure, Monitor, and Version Control.  Toolchains  In software, a toolchain is the set of programming tools that is used to perform a complex software development task or to create a software product, which is typically another computer program or a set of related programs. In general, the tools forming a toolchain are executed consecutively so the output or resulting environment state of each tool becomes the input or starting environment for the next one, but the term is also used when referring to a set of related tools that are not necessarily executed consecutively. As DevOps is a set of practices that emphasizes the collaboration and communication of both software developers and other information technology professionals, while automating the process of software delivery and infrastructure...
Apache Allura is an open-source forge software for managing source code repositories, bug reports, discussions, wiki pages, blogs and more for any number of individual projects. Allura graduated from incubation with the Apache Software Foundation in March 2013.  Features  Allura can manage any number of projects, including groups of projects known as Neighborhoods, as well as sub-projects under individual projects. Allura also has a modular design to support tools attached to neighborhoods or individual projects. Allura comes packaged with many tools, and additional external and third-party tools can be installed. There are tools to manage version control for source code repositories, ticket tracking, discussions, wiki pages, blogs and more. Allura can also export project data, as well as import data from a variety of sources, such as Trac, Google Code, GitHub, and, of course, Allura itself.  Features common to most tools  Most tools support Markdown formatting, threaded comments with integrated and configurable spam prevention, group or individual artifact level subscriptions via email or RSS, and powerful searching using Solr. Additionally, the Markdown syntax supports cross...
In information science and information technology, single source of truth architecture, or single point of truth architecture, for information systems is the practice of structuring information models and associated data schemas such that every data element is mastered in only one place, providing data normalization to a canonical form for example, in database normalization or content transclusion. There are several scenarios with respect to copies and updates: The master data is never copied and instead only references to it are made this means that all reads and updates go directly to the SSOT. The master data is copied but the copies are only read and only the master data is updated if requests to read data are only made on copies, this is an instance of CQRS. The master data is copied and the copies are updated this needs a reconciliation mechanism when there are concurrent updates. Updates on copies can be thrown out whenever a concurrent update is made on the master, so they are not considered fully committed until propagated to the master. Concurrent updates are merged. if an automatic merge fails, it could fall...
A changelog is a list of changes made to software that has been revised over time such as a codebase or a product. A changelog can be a curated record. The author of the changelog can present the information to make it easy to understand and consume. For a software project and a software release, a changelog often is organized as bug fixes and new features. A changelog can also be a generated report that includes all changes without regard to the ease of consuming or understanding. Typically, a version control system such as git can generate a list of code changes, but some view this as unhelpful and prefer a curated list of notable changes. Another example of generated changelog is that of the typical wiki that lists changes made to each article. In particular, Wikipedia provides this feature via the View history link on each article page. The name of a changelog file varies. Commonly-used names include CHANGELOG, CHANGES and HISTORY. The GNU Automake naming convention is ChangeLog. Sometimes that file name includes a file name extension to indicate file format, such as .txt for text, .md for Markdown, or .rst for reStructuredText. Often a codebase, especially an open...
Ichido Asobi ni Kite yo '99 '99, Ichido Asobi ni Kite yo Kyjky lit. Come Out and Play '99 is the 40th single by Japanese singersongwriter Chisato Moritaka. Written by Moritaka and Hideo Sait, the single was released by zetima on October 1, 1999. It is a re-recording of the song from Moritaka's 1994 album Step by Step. The song was Moritaka's final single before her retirement following her marriage to actor Ysuke Eguchi and her pregnancy at the end of 1999.  Chart performance  Ichido Asobi ni Kite yo '99 peaked at No. 60 on Oricon's singles chart and sold 7,000 copies, making it Moritaka's lowest selling single.  Other versions  Moritaka re-recorded the song and uploaded the video on her YouTube channel on April 27, 2013. This version is also included in Moritaka's 2013 self-covers DVD album Love Vol. 4.  Track listing   Personnel  Chisato Moritaka - vocals, loop drums David T. Walker - guitar Yasuaki Maejima - Fender Rhodes, keyboards, synthesizer programming  Chart positions   References   External links  Official website Ichido Asobi ni Kite yo '99Every Day at MusicBrainz
Baron George Hoyningen-Huene was a fashion photographer of the 1920s and 1930s. He was born in the Russian Empire to Baltic German and American parents and spent his working life in France, England and the United States.  Europe  Born in Saint Petersburg, Russia on September 4, 1900, Hoyningen-Huene was the only son of Baron Barthold Theodor Hermann von Hoyningen-Huene , a Baltic nobleman, military officer and lord of Navesti manor , and his wife, Emily Anne Nan Lothrop , a daughter of George Van Ness Lothrop, an American minister to Russia. The couple was married in Detroit, Michigan, in 1888. He had two sisters. Helen became a fashion designer in France and the United States, using the name Helen de Huene. Elizabeth , also known as Betty, also became a fashion designer using the name Mme. Yteb in the 1920s and 1930s. During the Russian Revolution, the Hoyningen-Huenes fled first to London, and later to Paris. He served as a Sergeant in the British Army during World War One. By 1925 George had already worked his way up to chief of photography of the French Vogue...
Mubarak Al-Kabeer Governorate Arabic:   , romanized: Mufaat Mubrak al-Kabr is one of the governorates of Kuwait which mainly houses residential areas of Kuwait City. It was formed in 27 November 1999 when the Hawalli Governorate was split in two, and was formerly called Qurain Governorate. It was named after Mubarak Al-Sabah, the seventh ruler of the Sheikhdom of Kuwait.  Districts  Areas within the governorate include:  Governors  1999-2006: Sheikh Mubarak Al-Homoud Al-Jaber Al-Sabah 2006-2014: Sheikh Ali Al-Abdullah Al-Salem Al-Sabah 2014-2019: Ahmad Abdul Latif Al-Rujaib 2019-Present: Mahmoud Abdul Samad Bushairi  References 
William Cone Johnson was an American lawyer and politician. He sat in the Texas House of Representatives and the Texas State Senate.  Early life and education  Johnson was born on June 11, 1860 in Dawsonville, Georgia, to Samuel Caraway Johnson and Emily Swilling. He attended Emery College in Oxford, Georgia and graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in 1880 from Peabody Normal College in Nashville, Tennessee.  Career   Law  Johnson settled in Tyler, Texas, after completing school and taught there for two years at Texas Eastern University while studying law with William S. Herndon. He was admitted to the Texas bar in 1883 and went into private practice.  Politics  In 1886, Johnson was elected to the Texas House of Representatives. He campaigned as a stump speaker in 1887 against prohibition. He later reversed his position on prohibition. Johnson served one term in the house before being elected to the Texas State Senate in 1888, where he served until 1892. In 1891, Johnson helped frame a bill to establish the Texas Railroad Commission. In 1910, Johnson unsuccessfully ran for governor against Oscar Branch Colquitt in the 1910 Texas gubernatorial...
Thayyil Radhakrishnan was a Malayalam novelist.  Biography  Radhakrishnan was born to Adv.Sankarankutty Menon and Vilasini at Kunnamkulam, Thrissur district, Kerala, India. He completed his B.Sc course from Sree Kerala Varma College and did medical courses in Patna. Mangalore and Mumbai. His first Novel, Sheen won the Tagore award.  Books  Sheen Pataliputhram Nizhalukal Samsarikkunna Ayodhya Netravathi  Award  Tagore award  References   External links     Archived 26 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine
The Keelung City Council or Keelung Municipal Council KMC traditional Chinese:  simplified Chinese:  pinyin: Jlng Sh Yhu is the elected city council of Keelung City, Republic of China. The council composes of 32 councilors lastly elected through the 2022 Republic of China local election on 26 November 2022.  Organization  Review Committees Civil Administration Finance Construction Education Procedure Committee Discipline Committee  Transportation  The council is accessible within walking distance East of Keelung Station of Taiwan Railway.  See also  Keelung City Government  References   External links  Official website
Malombra may refer to: Malombra , an 1881 novel by the writer Antonio Fogazzaro Malombra , a silent Italian film directed by Carmine Gallone Malombra , an Italian film directed by Mario Soldati Malombra , a 1974 Italian television series Malombra , an Italian film directed by Bruno Gaburro Pietro Malombra , Italian painter
The Days Before Yesterday is a Canadian historical documentary television miniseries which aired on CBC Television in 1973.  Premise  The series covered developments in Canadian history from 1897 to 1957.  Episodes  4 November 1973: The Jewel in the Crown concerns the administrations of Wilfrid Laurier and Robert Borden between 1897 and 1917 during which time conflict with Quebec developed and ending with Canada's participation in World War I 11 November 1973: Lord Byng, Canada Welcomes You concerns the administrations of Arthur Meighen and William Lyon Mackenzie King as World War I ends and the Great Depression begins other events include the 1919 Winnipeg General Strike, Prohibition and the development of western Canadian immigration 18 November 1973: The Best of Times. . . The Worst of Times concerns the administration of R. B. Bennett during the Depression 25 November 1973: King or Chaos concerns the administration of William Lyon Mackenzie King as Canadian life transitions from the Depression to World War II 2 December 1973: For King and Country concerns the culture, economy...
The 2025 Lethbridge municipal election was held on October 20, 2025, to elect the mayor, eight councillors , the seven Lethbridge School Division trustees and five of the Holy Spirit Catholic School Division's nine trustees . Voting stations were open from October 8 to 11, 15 to 18, and 20. Mayor Blaine Hyggen, elected in 2021, sought reelection and won a second term.  Results  Bold indicates elected, and incumbents are marked with an . 88,647 eligible voters 17,152 voted Voter turn-out: 19.35  Mayor   Candidates  Quentin Carlson, university student. Blaine Hyggen, incumbent Mayor since 2021. Ryan Mennie, former city councillor in Campbell River, British Columbia. Michael Petrakis  Councillors  Despite voters having voted for a ward system in a referendum in the 2021 election, Lethbridge City Council voted against pursuing the idea. 18 candidates will contest the race to fill the 8 at-large councillor seats on Lethbridge City Council.  Candidates  Top eight candidates are elected at large  See also  2025 Alberta municipal elections 2025 Calgary municipal election 2025 Edmonton municipal election  References 
Bromsgrove and Redditch was a parliamentary constituency located in Worcestershire, encompassing the towns of Bromsgrove and Redditch. It returned one Member of Parliament to the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The constituency was established for the February 1974 general election, and abolished ahead of the 1983 general election.  Boundaries  The Urban Districts of Bromsgrove and Redditch, and the Rural District of Bromsgrove.  Members of Parliament   Election results   Elections in the 1970s   References  Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs - Constituencies beginning with B
Evan Jones is a former Welsh lawn bowler who competed at the Commonwealth Games.  Biography  Jones bowled for the Port Talbot Municipal club and was part of the rinks team with Danny Prosser, Jack Griffiths and Len Hill that won the 1957 Welsh National Bowls Championships. The 1957 success led to their selection for the British Commonwealth and Empire Games qualification tournament in Cardiff, which they subsequently won. He represented the Welsh team at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, Wales, where he competed in the foursrinks event, and helped Wales finish in seventh place with Danny Prosser, Jack Griffiths and Len Hill. In 1962 he was once again part of the Port Talbot Municipal rinks team that won the Welsh National Championship.  References 
The Navalia was a military port of Ancient Rome which may also have included a naval dockyard. It is thought to have been sited on the left bank of the river Tiber to the south of the Campus Martius and is sometimes called the 'Navalia superiora' to distinguish it from another military port further down the Tiber near the Forum Boarium . The structures, probably gable roofed shipsheds of the period, were also mentioned as being used to hold hostages and circus animals, perhaps during the later period where silting meant navigation on the upper Tiber had become difficult.  History  In his book Ab urbe condita, Livy mentions the presence of the docks at Rome. These are paired with consular names that suggest dates in the middle of the fourth century BCE, the earliest mentions we have. These docks appear to have been active throughout the republican period with its greatest activity between 146-135 BCE. They were clearly important, as indicated by an expansion project in the second century BCE that attracted the talent of the Greek architect Hermodorus of Salamis, then actively involved in several high-profile buildings. The Navalia appears to have been...
The Pacific Northwest Collegiate Lacrosse League is a conference in the Men's Collegiate Lacrosse Association. The PNCLL is divided into two divisions, Division I and Division II, and incorporates teams from the U.S. states of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and Montana, as well as from the Canadian province of British Columbia.  Current teams   Former members   Past conference champions   Division I  Italic text denotes MCLA national runner-up.  indicates MCLA runner-up.  Division II  Bold text denotes MCLA national champion.  MCLA All-Americans   MCLA Division 1   MCLA Division 2   Reference 
Agnes of Prigord was Duchess consort of Durazzo, through her marriage to John of Gravina, Duke of Durazzo, who was also the ruler of the Kingdom of Albania. Although Agnes was never styled as Queen consort, she became politically influential. Following the death of Robert, King of Naples in 1343, she organised a marriage for her eldest son to Robert's granddaughter, who was second-in-line to the Neapolitan throne. Agnes's ambition was to bring her family closer to the line of succession.  Early life and marriage  Agnes was daughter of Helie VII, Count of Prigord and his second wife, Brunissende of Foix. Amongst her siblings was Hlie de Talleyrand-Prigord, a Cardinal who would become a major figure in the Avignon Papacy. The marriage between Agnes and John was likely arranged by King Robert of Sicily due to his favour for the Avignon Papacy. The King had anti-Ghibelline ambitions in Northern Italy and desired support from the Papacy and the French in achieving them. Agnes's family had marital ties to Pope John II as her sister Rosemburge was married to Jacques de Lavie, the Pope's grand-nephew. Acting upon this during his visit to Avignon, Robert arranged for his...
Cameron Welsh is an Australian actor, writer, producer and director, best known for his role as Mitch McColl on Australian soap opera Home and Away from 1999 until 2001 he then went on to become the series producer from 2007 until 2012.  Career  In 1999, Welsh auditioned for a guest role in the Channel Seven soap opera Home and Away. Through his audition he secured the regular role of Mitch McColl. In 2000, Welsh was diagnosed with a herniated disc in his back and Producers granted Welsh a six-week break. The serial hired Mitchell McMahon to play Mitch in Welsh's absence. He was nominated for a Logie Award in 2000 for Most Popular New Male Talent. Welsh decided to quit the role and Mitch's final scenes aired in early 2001. He went on to direct for Home and Away. Welsh's other directing credits include All Saints and Blue Heelers. In 2005, Welsh filmed a cameo for the serial's 4000th episode, which saw Mitch return for Alf Stewart's birthday. Welsh became series producer of Home and Away in 2007. He took over the role from Julie McGauran, whom he married in April 2007. They have two children. In January 2012, Welsh stepped down from his role as...
Beech Grove is a historic mansion in Nashville, Tennessee. Built as a log house circa 1850, it was a Southern plantation with African slaves in the Antebellum era. In the 1910s, it became a livestock farm.  Location  The property is located at 8423 Old Harding Pike in Nashville, the county seat of Davidson County, Tennessee.  History  The land belonged to Elisha Sherrill until 1801, when Hugh Allison acquired 200 acres. Allison, who served on the Davidson County Court, owned ten African slaves. He lived on the farm with his wife, Lydia Harrison Allison, and their five children. When he died in 1835, one of his sons, Thomas Jefferson Allison, inherited the farm. He acquired more land, expanding to 1,150 acres. Additionally, he owned 22 African slaves by 1840 and 53 slaves by 1860. As a result, the farm became a Southern plantation. Allison lived on the plantation with his wife Tabitha and their six children. The two-storey log house was built for the Allison family by Thomas Jones and Caleb Lucas, two carpenters, circa 1850. It was designed in the Greek Revival architecture. During the Civil War, half the slaves ran away via the railroad. After the war, the remaining 20 former...
Lutfar Rahman Sarkar was a Bangladeshi economist who served as the sixth Governor of Bangladesh Bank, the central bank of Bangladesh during 1996-1998. He served as a part-time faculty member of the University of Dhaka.  Career  Sarkar served as the executive president and chief executive officer of Islami Bank Bangladesh Ltd.  References   External links 
In economics, a commodity is an economic good, usually a resource, that specifically has full or substantial fungibility: that is, the market treats instances of the good as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. The price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole: well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets. The wide availability of commodities typically leads to smaller profit margins and diminishes the importance of factors other than price. Most commodities are raw materials, basic resources, agricultural, or mining products, such as iron ore, sugar, or grains like rice and wheat. Commodities can also be mass-produced unspecialized products such as chemicals and computer memory. Popular commodities include crude oil, corn, and gold. Other definitions of commodity include something useful or valued and an alternative term for an economic good or service available for purchase in the market. In such standard works as Alfred Marshall's Principles of Economics and Lon Walras's Elements of Pure Economics commodity serves as general term for an...
Screening in economics refers to a strategy of combating adverse selection - one of the potential decision-making complications in cases of asymmetric information - by the agent with less information. For the purposes of screening, asymmetric information cases assume two economic agents, with agents attempting to engage in some sort of transaction. There often exists a long-term relationship between the two agents, though that qualifier is not necessary. Fundamentally, the strategy involved with screening comprises the screener attempting to gain further insight or knowledge into private information that the other economic agent possesses which is initially unknown to the screener before the transaction takes place. In gathering such information, the information asymmetry between the two agents is reduced, meaning that the screening agent can then make more informed decisions when partaking in the transaction. Industries that utilise screening are able to filter out useful information from false information in order to get a clearer picture of the informed party. This is important when addressing problems such as adverse selection and moral hazard...
Peasant economics is an area of economics in which a wide variety of economic approaches ranging from the neoclassical to the Marxist are used to examine the political economy of the peasantry. The defining feature of the peasants are that they are typically seen to be only partly integrated into the market economy -- an economy which, in societies with a significant peasant population, is typically found to have many imperfect, incomplete or missing markets. Peasant economics treats peasants as something different from other farmers as they are not assumed to be simply small profit maximizing farmers by contrast, peasant economics covers a wide range of different theories of peasant household behavior. These include various assumptions about the maximization of profits, risk aversion, drudgery aversion, and sharecropping. The assumptions, logic, and predictions of these theories are examined and the impact of subsistence is typically found to have important implications in terms of producers decisions about supply, consumption and price. Chayanov was an early proponent of the importance of understanding peasant behaviour arguing that peasants would work as hard as they...
The University of Home Economics Lahore is a public university located in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan, under the Punjab Government. It was founded in 1955 to create a center for teaching and research in Home Economics and multiple emerging fields. It is one of the few women's university in Lahore. On 8 February 2017, Punjab assembly passed the bill to upgrade it from college to university. Prof. Dr. Kanwal Ameen was the first vice-chancellor, holding office from 31 May 2019 to May 2023.  Degree programs  The university has HEC recognition. It offers FA FSc. . The 3rd Syndicate has approved BS in: Human Nutrition  Dietetics Textile Design Fashion Design Human Development  Family Studies Sociology Art  Design Interior Design Hospitality  Tourism Management Home Economics. MS degree programs in: MS Food  Nutrition MS Textile  Clothing MS Human Development  Family Studies MS Art  Design MS Interior Design. The Vice Chancellor, Dr. Faleeha Zahra Kazmi also initiated the Department of Computer Science  Information Technology. The university also offers graduate...
Finance refers to the management, movement, investment, and raising of money. Finance also refers to the academic discipline that studies these. Based on the scope of financial activities, the discipline can be divided into the three primary branches personal, corporate, and public finance. In the financial system, assets are bought, sold, or traded as financial instruments, such as currencies, loans, bonds, shares, stocks, options, futures, swaps, etc. Assets can also be banked, invested, and insured to maximize value and minimize loss. In practice, risks are always present in any financial action and entities. Financial markets and institutions underpin the system. Due to its wide scope, a broad range of subfields exists within finance. Asset-, money-, risk- and investment management aim to maximize value and minimize volatility. Financial analysis assesses the viability, stability, and profitability of an action or entity. Some fields are multidisciplinary, such as mathematical finance, financial law, financial economics, financial engineering and financial technology. In some cases, theories in finance can be tested using the scientific method, covered by experimental finance...
Applied Economics Letters is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering applied economics. It was established in 1994 and is published 21 times per year by Routledge. It is a companion journal to Applied Economics. The editor-in-chief is Mark P. Taylor . According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 0.504.  References   External links  Official website
The Stockholm School of Economics SSE Swedish: Handelshgskolan i Stockholm, HHS is a private business school located in Vasastan's city district in the central part of Stockholm, Sweden. SSE offers BSc, MSc and MBA programs, along with PhD- and Executive education programs. SSE is accredited by EQUIS and is a member of CEMS. SSE has founded sister organizations: SSE Riga in Riga, Latvia, and SSE Russia in St Petersburg and Moscow, Russia. It also operates the European Institute of Japanese Studies Japanese, kanji: , Japanese, romaji: sh Nihon kenkyjo, a research institute in Tokyo, Japan.  History  The banker Knut Agathon Wallenberg donated 100 000 SEK in 1903 Equivalent to around 7,2 million SEK in 2026 to lobby for founding a business school in Stockholm. Wallenberg considered that It was important to raise the social status of the merchant class. Lobbying was necessary because the classical tradition in western thought has a long-standing disdain for commerce, dating back to the ancient Greeks. This disdain was also evident during the Middle Ages, when trade was considered equivalent to theft and seen as a dirty and vulgar occupation. During this time, merchants...
The Journal of Economic Methodology is a peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of economic methodology, including methodological analyses of the theory and practice of economics, the implications of developments in both the theory and practice of economics, economics's philosophical foundations, the rhetoric of economics, the sociology of economics, and the economics of economics. It is the official journal of the International Network for Economic Method.  References   External links  Official website International Network for Economic Method
Genetic algorithms have increasingly been applied to economics since the pioneering work by John H. Miller in 1986. It has been used to characterize a variety of models including the cobweb model, the overlapping generations model, game theory, schedule optimization and asset pricing. Specifically, it has been used as a model to represent learning, rather than as a means for fitting a model.  Genetic algorithm in the cobweb model  The cobweb model is a simple supply and demand model for a good over t periods. Firms make a production quantity decision in a given period, however their output is not produced until the following period. Thus, the firms are going to have to use some sort of method to forecast what the future price will be. The GA is used as a sort of learning behaviour for the firms. Initially their quantity production decisions are random, however each period they learn a little more. The result is the agents converge within the area of the rational expectations equilibrium for the stable and unstable case. If the election operator is used, the GA converges exactly to the RATE equilibrium. There are two types of learning methods these agents can be...
Madras School of Economics is an institution of higher education in economics, located in Chennai, India. Madras School of Economics was founded in 1993 as a post-graduate institution for teaching and research in economics. MSE offers a two-year Master's program in General Economics, Financial Economics, Applied Quantitative Finance, Actuarial Economics and Environmental economics affiliated to the Central University of Tamil Nadu, and a Ph.D. programme affiliated to the University of Madras. In April 2018, the AICTE approved Technical Institution started two P. G. Diploma Programs in Financial Engineering and Research  Business Analytics. MSE has undertaken a large number of research projects since its inception, including the World Bank sponsored Capacity Building Programme in Environmental Economics. The World Bank project involved research, training, curriculum, and overseas fellowship components which were coordinated by MSE. Subsequently, the Ministry of Environment and Forests approved the proposal to set up a Centre of Excellence in Environmental Economics at MSE. MSE has also served as an ENVIS Centre...
The Doughnut, or Doughnut economics, is a visual framework for sustainable development - shaped like a doughnut or lifebelt - combining the concept of planetary boundaries with the complementary concept of social boundaries. The name derives from the shape of the diagram, i.e. a disc with a hole in the middle. The centre hole of the model depicts the proportion of people that lack access to life's essentials while the crust represents the ecological ceilings that life depends on and must not be overshot. The diagram was developed by University of Oxford economist Kate Raworth in her 2012 Oxfam paper A Safe and Just Space for Humanity and elaborated upon in her 2017 book Doughnut Economics: Seven Ways to Think Like a 21st-Century Economist and paper.  Conceptual framework  The framework was proposed to evaluate the performance of an economy by the extent to which the needs of people are met without overshooting Earth's ecological ceiling. The main goal of the new model is to re-frame economic problems and set new goals. In this context, the model is also referred to as a wake-up call to transform our capitalist worldview...
The economics of open science describe the economic aspects of making a wide range of scientific outputs to all levels of society. Open science involves a plurality of economic models and goods. Historically, academic journals and other academic institutions, such as learned societies, have favored a knowledge club or a toll access model: publications are managed as a community service for the selected benefit of academic readers and authors. During the second half of the 20th century, the big 5 largest publishers Elsevier, Springer, Wiley, Taylor  Francis, and the American Chemical Society have partly absorbed or outcompeted non-profits structure and applied an industrial approach to scholarly publishing. The development of the web shifted the focus of scholarly communication from publication to a large variety of outputs . It also challenged the values and the organization of existing actors with the development of an international initiatives in favor of open access and open science. While initially distanced by new competitors, the main commercial publishers have started to flip to author-pay models after 2000, funded...
The Kyiv School of Economics is an undergraduate and graduate school of economics and management in Kyiv, Ukraine, founded in 1996 by the Economics Education and Research Consortium and the Eurasia Foundation. KSE has an agreement with the University of Houston in the United States which permits it to grant graduates an MA in economics in their name as well. KSE programs are taught by faculty who earned PhDs in US and European Union universities. Former Minister of Economy Tymofiy Mylovanov served as the school's president. The school's stated mission is to build the intellectual foundation for a strong and innovative economy of Ukraine. As of 2025, the school had graduated over 700 alumni, with more than 130 earning PhDs from Western universities. Since September 2026, KSE has been presided over by Yulia Svyrydenko, former Prime Minister of Ukraine.  Curriculum and management  The curriculum of the program is modeled on economic and financial programs in North America and Western Europe with English-language textbooks and access to modern world economic and scientific resources. Students have access to JSTOR and EBSCOHOST subscription scholarly archives. By...
Middle-out economics is a branch of demand-side macroeconomic theory. It identifies the buying power of the middle class as the necessary ingredient for job creation and economic growth. With consumption typically responsible for two-thirds of the gross domestic product in the Americas consumer spending is key. Middle-out economics maintains it is only the middle class that can create the aggregate demand necessary for business to support full employment levels. Given the wealthy's high propensity to save, middle-out economics holds that large concentrations of wealth are not sufficient cause for job creation. Middle-out economics maintains companies don't hire when they have an abundance of profits they hire when they have an abundance of customers. The middle-out economic framework is rooted in the scientific fact that economies are complex, adaptive, and ecosystemic. Economies are characterized by the same 'circle of life' like feedback loops found in natural ecosystems. Middle-out economics claims a fundamental law of capitalism must be if workers have no money then businesses have no customers. In this sense, it claims that the true job creators in a capitalistic economy...
The Review of Economics of the Household is a peer-reviewed academic journal established in 2001 by Shoshana Grossbard and first published in 2003. It publishes empirical and theoretical research on the economic behavior and decision-making processes of single and multi-person households. Household decisions analyzed in this journal include consumption, savings, labor supply and other time uses, marriage and divorce, demand for health and other forms of human capital, fertility and investment in children's human capital, households and environmental economics, economics of migration, and economics of religion. The journal is particularly interested in policy-relevant economic analyses of the effects of policy instruments on household decisions. Even though its focus is on micro-level applications, it also covers macro-economic applications and research on economic development. Review articles pertaining to household economics are published in the Perspectives section. The Review is not wedded to any particular set of models or methods, but encourages high-quality research using a variety of approaches as well as communication and interactions among researchers specialized in the economic...
In economics, a shock is an unexpected or unpredictable event that affects an economy, either positively or negatively. Technically, it is an unpredictable change in exogenous factors-that is, factors unexplained by an economic model-which may influence endogenous economic variables. The response of economic variables, such as GDP and employment, at the time of the shock and at subsequent times, is measured by an impulse response function.  Types of shocks  A technology shock is the kind resulting from a technological development that affects productivity. If the shock is due to constrained supply, it is termed a supply shock and usually results in price increases for a particular product. Supply shocks can be produced when accidents or disasters occur. The 2008 Western Australian gas crisis resulting from a pipeline explosion at Varanus Island is one example. A demand shock is a sudden change of the pattern of private expenditure, especially of consumption spending by consumers or of investment spending by businesses. A preference shock is a change in preferences over consumption or leisure. An inflationary shock happens when prices of commodities increase suddenly e.g., after...
In economics, utility is a measure of a certain person's satisfaction from a certain state of the world. Over time, the term has been used with at least two meanings. In a normative context, utility refers to a goal or objective that we wish to maximize, i.e., an objective function. This kind of utility bears a closer resemblance to the original utilitarian concept, developed by moral philosophers such as Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill. In a descriptive context, the term refers to an apparent objective function such a function is revealed by a person's behavior, and specifically by their preferences over lotteries, which can be any quantified choice. The relationship between these two kinds of utility functions has been a source of controversy among both economists and ethicists, with most maintaining that the two are distinct but generally related.  Utility function  Consider a set of alternatives among which a person has a preference ordering. A utility function represents that ordering if it is possible to assign a real number to each alternative in such a manner that alternative a is assigned a number greater than alternative b if and only if the individual prefers alternative...
Resource and Energy Economics is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering energy economics and environmental economics published by Elsevier. It was established in 1978 as Resources and Energy and obtained its current title in 1993. The editors-in-chief are R.D. Horan and D. van Soest . The journal was founded by University of Chicago economist George S. Tolley, and Tolley continues to serve as an honorary editor.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in ABIInform, Engineering Index, Geosystems, INSPEC, Journal of Economic Literature, RePEc, Scopus, Current ContentsSocial  Behavioral Sciences, and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 1.495.  Aims and scope  Resource and Energy Economics publishes theoretical and empirical research in environmental and natural resource economics and energy economics. Articles are required to be firmly grounded in economic theory and to provide new insights into environmental and natural resource problems and policies, as well as analyses of energy use and energy markets that...
This aims to be a complete article list of economics topics:  A  Absence rate - Accountancy - Accounting reform - Actuary - Adaptive expectations - Adverse selection - Agent - Agent-based computational economics - Aggregate demand - Aggregate supply - Agricultural policy - Appropriate technology - Arbitrage - Arrow's impossibility theorem - Asymmetric information - Auction - Austrian School - Autarky - Awards  B  Backward induction - Balance of payments - Balance of trade - Bank - Bank reserves - Bankruptcy - Barter - Behavioral economics - Bellman equation - Bequest motive - Big Mac Index - Big Push Model - Bioeconomics - Black market - Black-Scholes - Bretton Woods System - Bullionism - Business cycle - Bertrand-Edgeworth model  C  Capital - Capital asset - Capital intensity - Capitalism - Cartel - Cash crop - Catch-up effect - Celtic Tiger - Central bank - Ceteris paribus - Charity shop - Chicago School of Economics - Circular flow of income - Classical economics - Classical general equilibrium model - Coase conjecture - Coase theorem - Cobweb model - Collective action - Collusion - Commodity - Commodity market - Commodity money...
In macroeconomics, a multiplier is a factor of proportionality that measures how much an endogenous variable changes in response to a change in some exogenous variable. For example, suppose variable x changes by k units, which causes another variable y to change by M  k units. Then the multiplier is M.  Common uses  Two multipliers are commonly discussed in introductory macroeconomics. Commercial banks create money, especially under the fractional-reserve banking system used throughout the world. In this system, money is created whenever a bank gives out a new loan. This is because the loan, when drawn on and spent, mostly finishes up as a deposit back in the banking system and is counted as part of money supply. After putting aside a part of these deposits as mandated bank reserves, the balance is available for the making of further loans by the bank. This process continues multiple times, and is called the multiplier effect. The multiplier may vary across countries, and will also vary depending on what measures of money are being considered. For example, consider M2 as a measure of the U.S. money supply, and M0 as a measure of the U.S. monetary base. If a 1 increase in M0 by...
In economics, factors of production, resources, or inputs are what is used in the production process to produce output-that is, goods and services. The utilised amounts of the various inputs determine the quantity of output according to the relationship called the production function. There are four basic resources or factors of production: land, labour, capital and entrepreneur . The factors are also frequently labeled producer goods or services to distinguish them from the goods or services purchased by consumers, which are frequently labeled consumer goods. There are two types of factors: primary and secondary. The previously mentioned primary factors are land, labour and capital. Materials and energy are considered secondary factors in classical economics because they are obtained from land, labour, and capital. The primary factors facilitate production but neither become part of the product nor become significantly transformed by the production process . Land includes not only the site of production but also natural resources above or below the soil. Recent usage has distinguished human capital the...
A black market is a clandestine market or series of transactions that has some aspect of illegality within a legal jurisdiction it may also not be compliant with an institutional set of rules. If the rule defines the set of goods and services whose production and distribution are prohibited or restricted by law, non-compliance with the rule constitutes a black-market trade since the transaction itself is illegal. Such transactions include the illegal drug trade, prostitution , illegal currency transactions, and human trafficking. Participants often conceal illegal behavior from government authorities or regulators. Cash remains the preferred medium of exchange for illegal transactions, as it is more difficult to trace. Common reasons for engaging in black market activity include trading contraband, avoiding taxes or regulations, or evading price controls and rationing. Such activities are generally referred to using the definite article, e.g., the black market in bush meat. The black market is distinct from the grey market, in which commodities are distributed through channels that, while legal, are unofficial, unauthorized, or unintended by the original manufacturer...
Pakistan has a developing mixed economy with a prominent agriculture sector. It is the 40th-largest in terms of nominal GDP and the 20th-largest economy by purchasing power parity as of 2026. In per capita terms, the Pakistani economic output ranks 160th by nominal GDP and 138th by PPP GDP. Economic development in Pakistan is varied with growth centers located along the Indus River. Major urban centers with diversified economies include Karachi and the broader Punjab region, including Faisalabad, Lahore, Sialkot, Rawalpindi, and Gujranwala. With a large population exceeding 250 million, Pakistan is sensitive to immigration, natural disasters and regional armed conflict. Historically reliant on its private sector, Pakistan underwent nationalization in the 1970s, with a focus on its financial services, manufacturing, and transportation industries. It converted to an Islamic economic system in the following decade, outlawing economic practices forbidden under Sharia law. During the 1990s, the underdeveloped Pakistani economy began to privatize strategic sectors again becoming a semi-industrial nation by the 21st century. It has been dependent on agriculture and its textile industry...
Wealth is the abundance of valuable financial assets or physical possessions which can be converted into a form that can be used for transactions. This includes the core meaning as held in the originating Old English word weal, which is from the Indo-European word stem, wel-, meaning to wish or good. The modern concept of wealth is of significance in all areas of economics, and clearly so for growth economics and development economics, yet the meaning of wealth is context-dependent. A person possessing a substantial net worth is known as wealthy. Net worth is defined as the current value of one's assets less liabilities excluding the principal in trust accounts. At the most general level, economists may define wealth as the total of anything of value that captures both the subjective nature of the idea and the idea that it is not a fixed or static concept. Various definitions and concepts of wealth have been asserted by various people in different contexts. Defining wealth can be a normative process with various ethical implications, since often wealth maximization is seen as a goal or is thought to be a normative principle of its own. A community, region or country that possesses...
Krakw University of Economics Polish: Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny w Krakowie, abbreaviated UEK is one of the five Polish public economics universities. UEK came into existence in 1925. It is the biggest university of economic sciences in Poland. Krakw University of Economics is one of the three largest universities in Krakw, after Jagiellonian University and the AGH University of Science and Technology. The motto and mission of the university in Latin is Rerum cognoscere causas et valorem in English To learn the causes and values of things. To provide universal education. To bring together professional and general knowledge of methodological and theoretical character. Its 17-acre campus is in the vicinity of historical medieval Old Town of Krakw and easily accessible both on foot or by public transportation. In addition to the main campus in Krakw, the university has seven Remote Teaching Centers in the cities of the region.  History  The university opened its doors on October 1, 1925, as College of Commerce . On 6 November 1939, as a part of Sonderaktion Krakau operation, the Nazis arrested professors of Cracow universities who later...
Like many other nations at the time, Germany suffered the economic effects of the Great Depression, with unemployment soaring after the Wall Street crash of 1929. When Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of Germany in 1933, he introduced policies aimed at improving the economy. The changes included privatization of state-owned industries, tariffs, and an attempt to achieve autarky . Weekly earnings increased by 19 in real terms from 1933 to 1939, but this was largely due to employees working longer hours, while the hourly wage rates remained close to the lowest levels reached during the Great Depression. Reduced foreign trade would mean rationing of consumer goods like poultry, fruit, and clothing for many Germans. The Nazis believed in war as the primary engine of human progress, and argued that the purpose of a country's economy should be to enable that country to fight and win wars of expansion. As such, almost immediately after coming to power, they embarked on a vast program of military rearmament, which quickly dwarfed civilian investment. During the 1930s, Nazi Germany increased its military spending faster than any other state in peacetime, and...
Research Papers in Economics is a collaborative effort of hundreds of volunteers in many countries to enhance the dissemination of research in economics. The heart of the project is a decentralized database of working papers, preprints, journal articles, and software components. The project started in 1997. Its precursor NetEc dates back to 1993.  Overview  RePEc provides links to over 4,400,000 full-text articles, working papers, books, book chapters and software components. Most contributions are freely downloadable, but copyright remains with the author or copyright holder. It is among the largest internet repositories of academic material in the world. the collected data is leveraged by several services, the main ones being the websites IDEAS and EconPapers for exploration of the bibliographic data, and the RePEc Author Service for author profiles and authority control. Many bibliographic providers also use all or part of the data. Materials to RePEc can be added through a department or institutional archive or, if no institutional archive is available, through the Munich Personal RePEc Archive. Institutions are welcome to join and contribute their materials by establishing...
In economic theory and econometrics, the term heterogeneity refers to differences across the units being studied. For example, a macroeconomic model in which consumers are assumed to differ from one another is said to have heterogeneous agents.  Unobserved heterogeneity in econometrics  In econometrics, statistical inferences may be erroneous if, in addition to the observed variables under study, there exist other relevant variables that are unobserved, but correlated with the observed variables dependent and independent variables . Methods for obtaining valid statistical inferences in the presence of unobserved heterogeneity include the instrumental variables method multilevel models, including fixed effects and random effects models and the Heckman correction for selection bias.  Economic models with heterogeneous agents  Economic models are often formulated by means of a representative agent. Depending on the application, individual agents can be aggregated to or represented by a single agent. For example, individual demand can be aggregated to market demand if and only if individual preferences are of the Gorman polar form or equivalently satisfy linear and parallel...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 641 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The Internet originated in the efforts of scientists and engineers to build and interconnect computer networks. The Internet Protocol Suite, the set of rules used to communicate between networks and devices on the Internet, arose from research and development in the United States and involved international collaboration, particularly with researchers in the United Kingdom and France. Computer science was an emerging discipline in the late 1950s that began to consider time-sharing between computer users, and later, the possibility of achieving this over wide area networks. J. C. R. Licklider articulated the idea of a universal network at the Information Processing Techniques Office of the United States Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . Independently, Paul Baran at the RAND Corporation proposed a distributed network based on data in message blocks in the early 1960s, and Donald Davies conceived of packet switching in 1965 at the National Physical Laboratory , proposing a national commercial data network in the United Kingdom. ARPA awarded contracts in 1969 for the development of the ARPANET project, directed by Robert Taylor and managed...
Internet Explorer formerly Microsoft Internet Explorer and Windows Internet Explorer, commonly abbreviated as IE or MSIE is a retired series of graphical web browsers developed by Microsoft that were used in the Windows line of operating systems. While IE has been discontinued on most Windows editions, it remains supported on certain editions of Windows, such as Windows 10 LTSBLTSC. Starting in 1995, it was first released as part of the add-on package Plus! for Windows 95 that year. Later versions were available as free downloads or in-service packs and included in the original equipment manufacturer service releases of Windows 95 and later versions of Windows. Microsoft spent over US100 million per year on Internet Explorer in the late 1990s, with over 1,000 people involved in the project by 1999. In 2015, Microsoft Edge was released to succeed Internet Explorer 11 as Microsoft's primary web browser. New feature development for Internet Explorer was discontinued the following year, and support for the browser officially ended on June 15, 2022, for Windows 10 Semi-Annual Channel editions. Although Internet Explorer has fallen out of general use after retirement, it...
An Internet meme, or meme , is a cultural item that spreads across the Internet, now primarily through social media platforms. Internet memes manifest in a variety of formats, including images, videos , and other viral content. Key characteristics of memes include their tendency to be parodied, their use of intertextuality, their viral dissemination, and their continual evolution. The term meme was originally introduced by Richard Dawkins in his 1976 book The Selfish Gene to describe a conceptual unit of cultural transmission, analogous to the gene in biology. The term Internet meme was coined by Mike Godwin in 1993 in reference to the way memes proliferated through early online communities, including message boards, Usenet groups, and email. The emergence of social media platforms such as YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram further diversified memes and accelerated their spread. Dank and surrealist memes are some of the newer genres, with newer formats like short-form videos popularized by platforms like Vine and TikTok. Newer internet memes are often classified as brain...
Internet Standard is the highest maturity level in the Internet Engineering Task Force standards track for Internet protocol specifications. Internet Standards are published as one or more Request for Comments documents and are additionally assigned an STD number that identifies the standard as a whole . The Internet Standards Process is defined in a series of IETF Best Current Practice documents, including RFC 2026 and RFC 6410. Not all RFCs are Internet Standards RFCs may also be informational, experimental, or otherwise outside the standards track.  Overview  Engineering work typically begins as an Internet-Draft and may be published as an RFC. Standards-track RFCs are initially published as Proposed Standards and may later advance to Internet Standard when implementation and operational experience requirements are met, as specified by the Internet Standards Process. The definitive list of Internet Standards is maintained by the RFC Editor.  History and the purpose of Internet Standards  Internet standards are technical specifications-such as communication...
Internet of things describes physical objects that are embedded with sensors, processing ability, software, and other technologies that connect and exchange data with other devices and systems over the Internet or other communication networks. The field of IoT encompasses electronics, communication, and computer science engineering. Internet of things has been considered a misnomer because most devices do not need to be connected to the public Internet they only need to be connected to a network and be individually addressable. The field has evolved due to the convergence of multiple technologies, including ubiquitous computing, sensors, embedded systems, and machine learning. Traditional fields of embedded systems, wireless sensor networks, control systems, and automation independently and collectively enable the Internet of things. While in the consumer market, IoT technology is most commonly known as smart home products-including devices and appliances like thermostats and smart speakers-the technology's largest applications are in the business and industrial sectors. Commercial asset tracking and fleet management represent the largest single application of IoT, accounting...
The dead Internet theory is a concept that asserts that the Internet consists primarily of bot activity and automated content manipulated by algorithmic curation. Originally conceived as a conspiracy theory that the phenomenon is a coordinated effort to control the population and reduce genuine human interaction, the concept is also employed colloquially to describe the impacts of generative AI and emphasize only the core observations without speculating on the driving forces. Supporters of the full theory claim that social bots were deliberately created to manipulate algorithms and enhance search results to influence consumers. Some proponents also accuse government agencies of using bots to shape public perception and opinions. The dead Internet theory gained renewed interest following the AI boom that began in the 2020s, with large language model chatbots and text-to-image models emerging as technologies that could theoretically drown out human-authored content on the web. In the time since, social media sites have seen a measured increase in bot activity, such as algorithmic feeds displaying low-quality AI slop at the expense of user-generated content. Commentators have linked...
An Internet bot , or simply bot, is a software application that runs automated tasks on the Internet, usually with the intent to imitate human activity, such as messaging, on a large scale. An Internet bot plays the client role in a client-server model whereas the server role is usually played by web servers. Internet bots are able to perform simple and repetitive tasks much faster than a person could ever do. The most extensive use of bots is for web crawling, in which an automated script fetches, analyzes and files information from web servers. More than half of all web traffic is generated by bots. Efforts by web servers to restrict bots vary. Some servers have a robots.txt file that contains the rules requesting how bots should behave on the website. Any bot that does not follow the rules could, in theory, be denied access to the affected website, while in practice, a website owner can force a bot to follow the rules or ensure that a bot's creator or implementer reads or acknowledges the robots.txt file. Some bots are good, e.g. search engine spiders, while other bad bots are used to launch malicious attacks on websites or applications...
Post-Internet is a loosely defined 21st-century art movement that generally referred to contemporary art concerning the concept of the Internet no longer being perceived as a novelty in society. In 2006, artist Marisa Olson coined the term postinternet art to describe her work. The term was then adopted by writer Gene McHugh who authored a blog titled Post-Internet in 2009, which further discussed and popularized the concept into a movement growing out of previous Internet Art. The movement is associated with the 21st century contemporary art world and aimed to reflect the ubiquity of the Internet in the Information Age through practices derived from the Internet as a medium or its effects on aesthetics, culture and society. Notable artists include Jon Rafman, Artie Vierkant, Ryan Trecartin, Brad Troemel, Joshua Citarella, Molly Soda, Cory Arcangel, Stepan Ryabchenko, Parker Ito, Kalup Linzy, Amalia Ulman, Petra Cortright, Ryder Ripps, Andrew Norman Wilson, DIS, Seth Price, Katja Novitskova, Jonathan Monaghan, Rachel de Joode and Lizzie Fitch.  Etymology  In 2006, artistcurator Marisa Olson coined the term postinternet art in an attempt to describe her practice. Digital art...
The dark web is the World Wide Web content that exists on darknets that use the Internet, but require specific software, configurations, or authorization to access. Through the dark web, private computer networks can communicate and conduct business anonymously without divulging identifying information, such as a user's location. The dark web forms a small part of the deep web, the part of the web not indexed by web search engines, although sometimes the term deep web is mistakenly used to refer specifically to the dark web. The darknets which constitute the dark web include small, friend-to-friend networks, as well as large, popular networks such as Tor, Hyphanet, I2P, and Riffle operated by public organizations and individuals. Users of the dark web refer to the regular web as clearnet due to its unencrypted nature. The Tor dark web or onionland uses the traffic anonymization technique of onion routing under the network's top-level domain suffix .onion.  Terminology   Definition  The dark web has often been confused with the deep web, the parts of the web not indexed by search engines. The term dark web first emerged in 2009 however, it is...
Internet rap also known as online rap or originally blog rap is a style of hip-hop that emerged in the late 2000s, initially spreading through the online blogosphere, and early social media platforms like Myspace and later Tumblr, as well as mixtape-sharing site DatPiff. Internet rap encompasses various online styles and aesthetics deeply intertwined with internet culture, memes, and digital communities. Unlike traditional hip-hop, internet rap is characterized by music primarily influenced by the internet and born out of online communities. Artists often favor online music distribution platforms such as SoundCloud, with songs frequently promoted and shared through streaming services like YouTube, TikTok, and Instagram. Though many internet rappers achieve mainstream success, artists within this label have been described as alternative or underground rap. The scene was originally based primarily on trap music but later gave rise to several Internet music microgenres and subcultures.  Etymology and characteristics  According to music journalist Alphonse Pierre, writing for Pitchfork, the term internet rappers was once used as a dismissive label but later popularized by the SoundCloud...
Team Internet Group PLC is a British multinational internet services holding company headquartered in London, United Kingdom. Its subsidiaries provide services categorized in two segments: Online Marketing and Online Presence. The Online Marketing segment offers services and products in digital advertising, domain monetization, traffic commerce and product comparison the Online Presence segment provide domain name registry and registrar services, in addition to associated products and services, including web hosting, brand management, and domain parking. Team Internet Group PLC is listed within the AIM market on the London Stock Exchange since 2013. It was featured in the FT1000 sixth and seventh annual list of Europe's fastest growing companies, being listed among the top-250 fastest-growing companies in both reports, published by the Financial Times in partnership with Statista, and among the top-50 fastest-growing Technology companies in Europe. Team Internet Group PLC is incorporated on both the FTSE AIM 100 and FTSE AIM UK 50 Indices.  History  CentralNic was founded by Stephen Dyer in 2000 as a successor organisation to...
On the Internet, a block or ban is a technical measure intended to restrict access to information or resources. Blocking and its inverse, unblocking, may be implemented by the owners of computers using software. Blocking may also refer to denying access to a web server based on the Internet Protocol address. In certain websites, including social networks such as Facebook or editable databases like wikis, users can apply blocks on other users deemed undesirable to prevent them from performing certain actions. Blocks of this kind may occur for several reasons and produce different effects: in social networks, users can block other users without restriction, typically by preventing them from sending messages or viewing the blocker's information or profile. Administrators, moderators, or other privileged users can apply blocks that affect the access of the undesirable users to the entire website.  Blocking by countries  Some countries, notably China and Singapore, block access to certain news information. In the United States, the Children's Internet Protection Act requires schools receiving federal funded discount rates for Internet access...
An Internet forum, or message board, is an online discussion platform where people can hold conversations in the form of posted messages. They differ from chat rooms in that messages are often longer than one line of text, and are at least temporarily archived. Also, depending on the access level of a user or the forum set-up, a posted message might need to be approved by a moderator before it becomes publicly visible. The name comes from the forums of Ancient Rome. Forums have a specific set of jargon associated with them for example, a single conversation is called a thread or topic. A discussion forum is hierarchical or tree-like in structure a forum can contain a number of sub-forums, each of which may have several topics. Depending on the forum's settings, users can be anonymous or have to register with the forum and then subsequently log in to post messages. On most forums, users do not have to log in to read existing messages.  History  The modern forum originated from bulletin boards and so-called computer conferencing systems, which are a technological evolution of the dial-up bulletin board system . From a technological standpoint, forums or boards are web...
Internet privacy involves the right or mandate of personal privacy concerning the storage, re-purposing, provision to third parties, and display of information pertaining to oneself via the Internet. Internet privacy is a subset of data privacy. Privacy concerns have been articulated from the beginnings of large-scale computer sharing and especially relate to mass surveillance. Privacy can entail either personally identifiable information or non-PII information such as a site visitor's behavior on a website. PII refers to any information that can be used to identify an individual. For example, age and physical address alone could identify who an individual is without explicitly disclosing their name, as these two parameters are unique enough to identify a specific person typically. Other forms of PII may include GPS tracking data used by apps, as the daily commute and routine information can be enough to identify an individual. It has been suggested that the appeal of online services is to broadcast personal information on purpose. On the other hand, in security expert Bruce Schneier's essay entitled, The Value of Privacy, he says, Privacy protects us from abuses by those...
An Internet service provider is an organization that provides a myriad of services related to accessing, using, managing, or participating in the Internet. ISPs can be organized in various forms, such as commercial, community-owned, non-profit, or otherwise privately owned. Internet services typically provided by ISPs can include Internet access, Internet transit, domain name registration, web hosting, and colocation.  History  The Internet was developed as a network between government research laboratories and participating departments of universities. Other companies and organizations joined by direct connection to the backbone, or by arrangements through other connected companies, sometimes using dial-up tools such as UUCP. By the late 1980s, a process was set in place towards public, commercial use of the Internet. Some restrictions were removed by 1991, shortly after the introduction of the World Wide Web. During the 1980s, online service providers such as CompuServe, Prodigy, and America Online began to offer limited capabilities to access the Internet, such as e-mail interchange, but full access to the Internet was not readily available to...
Internet censorship is the legal control or suppression of what can be accessed, published, or viewed on the Internet. Censorship is most often applied to specific internet domains but exceptionally may extend to all Internet resources located outside the jurisdiction of the censoring state. Internet censorship may also put restrictions on what information can be made internet accessible. Organizations providing internet access - such as schools and libraries - may choose to preclude access to material that they consider undesirable, offensive, age-inappropriate or even illegal, and regard this as ethical behavior rather than censorship. Individuals and organizations may engage in self-censorship of material they publish, for moral, religious, or business reasons, to conform to societal norms, political views, due to intimidation, or out of fear of legal or other consequences. The extent of Internet censorship varies on a country-to-country basis. While some countries have moderate Internet censorship, other countries go as far as to limit the access of information such as news and suppress and silence discussion among citizens. Internet censorship...
An Internet Protocol address is a numerical label, such as 192.168.1.1 or 2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334, that is assigned to a device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. IP addresses serve two main functions: network interface identification, and location addressing. Internet Protocol version 4 was the first standalone specification for the IP address, and has been in use since 1983. IPv4 addresses are defined as a 32-bit number, which later then became too small to provide enough addresses as the internet grew, leading to IPv4 address exhaustion over the 2010s. Its designated successor, IPv6, uses 128 bits for the IP address, giving it a larger address space. Although IPv6 deployment has been ongoing since the mid-2000s, both IPv4 and IPv6 are still used side-by-side as of 2026, with IPv6 recently exceeding 50 globally after 18 years. IP addresses are usually displayed in a human-readable notation, but systems may use them in various different computer number formats. CIDR notation can also be used to designate how much of the address should be treated as a routing prefix. For example, 192.0.2.124 indicates...
IMDb, formerly known as the Internet Movie Database, is an online database of information related to films, television series, podcasts, video games, and streaming content online - including cast, production crew and biographies, plot summaries, trivia, ratings, and fan and critical reviews. As of September 2025, IMDb ranks as the 40th most visited website in the world and the 35th in the United States. The database contained some 25.9 million titles, and 14.8 million person records as of September 2025.  Features  User profile pages show a user's registration date and, optionally, their personal ratings of titles. Since 2015, badges can be added showing a count of contributions. These badges range from total contributions made to independent categories such as photos, trivia, and biographies. If a registered user or visitor is in the entertainment industry and has an IMDb page, they can add photos through IMDbPRO.  User ratings of films   Rankings  The IMDb Top 250 is a list of the top-rated 250 films, based on ratings by registered users of the website using the methods described. As of June 23, 2026, The Shawshank Redemption , directed by Frank Darabont, is the...
Chakkar is a 2018 Pakistani television drama series written by Rukhsana Nigar that premiered on 12 December 2018 on Bol Entertainment, directed by Kanwal Khoosat. It stars Resham as a middle-aged woman who becomes bitter due to her stepmother and wants love and affection by marrying. Zain Afzal, Aamna Malick and Faryal Gohar played pivotal roles.  Synopsis  The story is about how a middle-aged woman-whether she is a stepmother or her husband's second wife-copes with her many relations, and who emerges successful in this roundabout of relations.  Plot  Zeba lives in a middle-class locality of Lahore with her father Sajjad, stepmother Kishwar and half-brother Monty. She has great hold on her house as her deceased mother has named the house after her. Over the years, she has developed a great rivalry with Kishwar. Her aunt Nuzhat teaches in a school, whom she calls Nuzhi Aapa is the only friend and guiding figure for her. Kishwar wants to marry Monty first but she marries earlier with a middle-class man Saad in return of some money. Saad marries her as he was in need of money despite married already. He was not happy with her first marriage with Rija which...
The Los Angeles Terrorism Early Warning Group was designed by LT John Sullivan. It provides local responders and community leaders with information on the current threat and future prevention. Terrorism Early Warning Groups are a model of fusion center that emphasizes operations-intelligence fusion for all phases of response and community protection. TEWs serve law enforcement investigative needs, fire service response, and medical , as well as public health . The LA TEW was named among the Top 100 innovative programs by Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government: 16th Annual Innovations in American Government Awards , and as a Finalist in Mitretek Innovations in Homeland Security Award issued by Mitretek and the Ash Institute for Governance and Innovation at the Harvard Kennedy School .  TEW Mission  Each individual TEW shares the following attributes: Serves as the focal point for analyzing the strategic and operational information needed to respond to terrorism and protect critical infrastructure Is responsible for information sharing and intelligence...
Diphenyl-2-pyridylmethane is a triaryl organic compound that has been used to selectively extract specific metal ions into organic solvents. Its pharmacology is similar to the stimulant desoxypipradrol in which the pyridine ring is reduced to a piperidine and for which it is a chemical precursor.  Preparation  Diphenyl-2-pyridylmethane was prepared by researchers at Ciba Pharmaceuticals as the immediate precursor of desoxypipradrol, when they patented the latter as a psychomotor stimulant or narcoleptic. Diphenyl acetonitrile was reacted with 2-bromopyridine, using sodamide as base and the resulting diphenyl-2-pyridylacetonitrile was hydrolysed and decarboxylated using potassium hydroxide in methanol.  Uses  Diphenyl-2-pyridylmethane behaves in coordination complexes with metal cations in the same way as pyridine, with the aromatic nitrogen potentially forming a bond to the metal. In this case, the bulky and lipophilic diphenylmethyl substituent means that the resulting complex may be appreciably soluble in organic solvents like chloroform and benzene. This ability to transfer metal cations from water into non-miscible solvents...
Arthur O'Neill was an Irish Unionist politician. Arthur O'Neill or Art O'Neill may refer to: Blessed Arthur O'Neilly , Irish born Trinitarian priest who was captured by slavers in Egypt and martyred Art Oge O'Neill , head of the O'Neill dynasty Arthur O'Neill , Gaelic Irish landowner Art MacBaron O'Neill , Gaelic Irish landowner Arturo O'Neill , Irish-born Spanish soldier Arthur O'Neill , Irish musician Arthur Joseph O'Neill , American bishop of the Roman Catholic Church Arthur O'Neill , English international rugby union player
Minuscule 168 , 31 , is a Greek minuscule manuscript of the New Testament, on parchment. Palaeographically it has been assigned to the 13th century. It has marginalia.  Description  The codex contains the text of the four Gospels on 217 thick parchment leaves , with Theophylact's commentary, and some lacunae . The beginning of the codex was destroyed by humidity. The text is written in two columns per page, 40 lines per page, in brown-black ink. The text is divided according to numbers of the  , whose numbers are given at the margin, and the  at the top of the pages. There is also a division according to the Ammonian Sections, with references to the Eusebian Canons . It contains tables of the  before each Gospel, the subscriptions at the end of Mark, with numbers of , and numbers of  were added by a later hand.  Text  The Greek text of the codex is a mixture of text-types. Aland did not place it in any Category. According to the Claremont Profile Method it has...
P egna ben is Carola Hggkvist's third long-play album, released in late 1984. The biggest hit from the album is the title track, which in fact is a Swedish cover version of an old Bryan Adams song. In Finland, the bonus track Albatross also was included. On the album charts, the albums peaked at number 5 in Sweden and number 10 in Norway.  Swedish track listing  P egna ben I en sommarnatt Terpsichore Krlekens natt Hr r mitt liv Hand i hand Om du trs Amore Swedish version of Non voglio mica la luna S attraherad Gjord av sten Ge av dig sjlv Du lever inom mig  European track listing as Carola With Love  You're Still On My Mind One By One Life Love Isn't Love Let There Be Love Radio Love I Think I Like It Tommy Loves Me Albatros Thunder and Lightning Tokyo Hunger It's Raining in Stockholm  Canadian track listing  Tommy Loves Me I Think I Like It Thunder And Lightning Tokyo Hunger It's Raining in Stockholm You're Still On My Mind One By One Life Love Isn't Love Let There Be Love Radio Love  Release history   Chart positions   References 
Pradip Kumar Varma is an Indian politician and a member of the Rajya Sabha from Jharkhand. He is currently the Party State General Secretary BJP Jharkhand since May 2020.Erstwhile he served as the State Vice President in BJP Jharkhand in 2016 and the State Secretary in BJP Jharkhand in 2013. Earlier he also served as co-convener of Tranning cell BJP Jharkhand. He has been elected by Rajya Sabha as member of the institute Body of AIIMS Deoghar since December 2024. He has also been a member of the Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology since October 2024 and a member of the Committee on Coal, Mines and Steel since September 2024. Varma founded Sarala Birla Public School , Sarala Birla University , a nursing college , and several other educational and welfare projects. Varma is a second-year OTC-trained Swayamsevak from Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and also served as a Joint Secretary in Seva Bharti in Prantiya toli.From 2009-2012 he was an active member of RSS Prantiya Sampark Toli Jharkhand. He is also the chief patron of Chotanagpur Sarna Samiti constituted in 147 panchayat blocks of Ranchi district...
Acremodontina boucheti is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Trochaclididae, the false top snails.  Distribution  This marine species occurs off south New Caledonia at a depth of 500 m.  References   External links  World Register of Marine Species
In the United States, a Form 1099-OID is a tax form intended to be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service by the holder of debt instruments which were discounted at purchase to report the taxable difference between the instruments' actual value and the discounted purchase price. Like other 1099 forms, it is normally filled out by a payer of income-for example, the issuer or seller of a discounted bond-and sent to tax authorities and the income recipient.  History  The current statutory framework for taxing original issue discount was established by the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 , which subjected interest including OID to backup withholding, and by the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, which required OID on debt instruments issued after July 1, 1982 to be included in income on the basis of a constant interest rate and treated stripped bonds and stripped coupons as OID obligations.  Reporting  Original issue discount is defined by Internal Revenue Code section 1273 as the excess of a debt instrument's stated redemption price at maturity over its issue price. Under section 1272, holders generally include...
Songs My Mother Taught Me is a song for voice and piano, written by Charles Ives in 1895 and set to a poem by Adolf Heyduk. Ives' song was written some fifteen years after Antonn Dvok's setting of the same poem, with which it shares some similarities. There have been numerous arrangements of the Ives song with its nostalgic melody. New York City Ballet balletmaster Jerome Robbins used it for one of the dances he made in Ives, Songs.  References 
Jon Peter May is an American mathematician working in the fields of algebraic topology, category theory, homotopy theory, and the foundational aspects of spectra. He is known, in particular, for the May spectral sequence and for coining the term operad.  Education and career  May received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Swarthmore College in 1960 and a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Princeton University in 1964. His thesis, written under the direction of John Moore, was titled The cohomology of restricted Lie algebras and of Hopf algebras: Application to the Steenrod algebra. From 1964 to 1967, May taught at Yale University. He has been a faculty member at the University of Chicago since 1967, and a professor since 1970. The word operad was created by May as a portmanteau of operations and monad.  Awards  In 2012 he became an inaugural fellow of the American Mathematical Society. He has advised over 60 doctoral students, including Mark Behrens, Andrew Blumberg, Dan Isaksen, Frederick Cohen, Ib Madsen, Mona Merling, Emily Riehl, Michael Shulman, and Zhouli u. May received the 2026 AMS Elias M. Stein Mentoring Award for his exceptional mentoring...
Penola may refer to the following:  Places  Antarctica Penola Island Penola Strait Australia Penola, South Australia, a town and locality Penola Conservation Park, a protected area in South Australia Hundred of Penola, a cadastral unit in South Australia United States Penola, Virginia, an unincorporated community in Virginia  Ships  Penola, a sailing ship used for the British Graham Land expedition SS Penola, a steamship  Other  Penola , a genus of flies in the family Sphaeroceridae Penola Catholic College, a secondary school in Victoria, Australia
The Mausoleum of Rabiya Sultan Begim is a reconstruction of a late 15th-century monument in the city of Turkistan, now in southern Kazakhstan. It stands about 60 m southeast of the Timurid-era Mausoleum of Khoja Ahmed Yasawi, which became a World Heritage Site in 2003. The mausoleum fell into disrepair and was demolished in 1896. A crypt was rediscovered under the ruins in the 1950s, and the structure was reconstructed in 1980. Rabiya Sultan Begim was the daughter of the Timurid sultan Ulugh Beg , and so the great-granddaughter of the Timurid dynasty's founder Timur . In 1451 she became the fourth wife of Abu'l-Khayr Khan , ruler of the Uzbek Khanate, whose grandson Muhammad Shaybani founded the Shaybanid Khanate of Bukhara, later the Emirate of Bukhara, which survived until 1920. Towards the end of her life she lived in the city of Yasi, now known as Turkistan, where the mausoleum was constructed after her death in 1485. The structure was a typical of the Timurid period: a main octagonal structure of brick with arched recesses on each faade, topped by a cylindrical drum and dome both decorated with ceramic tiles, and a square brick...
Philip Grange is an English composer and academic.  Career  Grange was born in London. He attended Peter Maxwell Davies's classes at Dartington, and then took further, private, lessons with Davies while at The University of York, where he also studied composition with David Blake. He was Fellow Commoner in Creative Arts at Trinity College, Cambridge , and Northern Arts Fellow in Composition at Durham University before joining the music department at Exeter University as lecturer , reader and professor in composition. In 2000 he moved to the University of Manchester, where he is Professor of Music.  Works  Grange's first published pieces date from the late 1970s, and include Cimmerian Nocturne , which was commissioned by The Fires of London, and included a performance under director Peter Maxwell Davies at the 1983 Proms as well as performances in Britain and abroad. Other early works include The Kingdom of Bones for mezzo-soprano and chamber orchestra, , Variations and Concerto for Orchestra: Labyrinthine Images During the early 1990s Grange completed two BBC commissions, Focus and Fade...
Jaya Sri are a Sri Lankan reggae consisting of Rohitha Jayalath and Rohan Jayalath, who are twins, along with five more members to form the full band. Considered one of the most commercially successful music duos in Sri Lanka, Jaya Sri has received global success in many European countries particularly with their literal mixed reggae, hip hop style modern infusion in taking Western and Sinhala music.  Personal life  They were born in Madampe, , Sri Lanka. Then they moved to Nattandiya. They are both twins. Rohitha is three hours older than Rohan. His father Maktildes Jayalath was also a musician. They completed both OL and AL education from Maris Stella College, Negombo.  Musical career  When the twins were at Montessori age, their grandfather Eusabius Subasinha presented them with two guitars. This led them to master the different levels of music at a young age. They joined the school band with two Marist brothers. While doing ALs, they started to form a band and perform professionally. Then they formed the first band, called Serendib, which was managed by their father. The band performed in the tourist hotel circuit in the Negombo area. After...
Mohammad Shoyeb is an Indian cricketer who made his first-class debut for Arunachal Pradesh in the 2018-19 Ranji Trophy on 1 November 2018. To the end of the 202223 season, that remains his sole appearance in senior cricket.  References   External links  Mohammad Shoyeb at Cricinfo
Biodiversity in agriculture is the measure of biodiversity found on agricultural land. Biodiversity is the total diversity of species present in an area at all levels of biological organization. It is characterized by heterogeneous habitats that support the diverse ecological structure. In agricultural areas, biodiversity decreases as varying landscapes are lost and native plants are replaced with cultivated crops. Increasing biodiversity in agriculture can increase the sustainability of farms through the restoration of ecosystem services that aid in regulating agricultural lands. Biodiversity in agriculture can be increased through the process of agroecological restoration, as farm biodiversity is an aspect of agroecology. Biodiversity is the measure of biotic and abiotic diversity in an ecosystem, described by heterogeneity. The loss of biodiversity in agriculture has been an increasing issue since the global increase of food demands and success of popular crops. This loss of heterogeneity declines species biodiversity on agricultural lands. Biodiversity in agriculture is essential in providing ecosystem services, which conserves biodiversity while providing agricultural services...
Agriculture was the foundation of the economy in Ivory Coast and its main source of growth. In 1987 the agricultural sector contributed 35 percent of the country's GDP and 66 percent of its export revenues, provided employment for about two-thirds of the national work force, and generated substantial revenues despite the drop in coffee and cocoa prices. From 1965 to 1980, agricultural GDP grew by an average 4.6 percent per year. Growth of agricultural GDP from coffee, cocoa, and timber production, which totaled nearly 50 percent of Ivory Coast's export revenues, averaged 7 percent a year from 1965 to 1980. In Ivory Coast more than 60 of the land is agricultural and therefore their economy's foundation is mostly based on their agriculture. Fifty-five percent of their income come from exports of cocoa and coffee which are both agricultural products. Contributing to this impressive performance were an abundance of fertile land, cheap labor, the collective efforts of many farmers cultivating small plots, relatively favorable commodity prices, and a stable political environment.  History  Earlier in the 1880s and 1890s, the French had conquered and ruled most territories in West Africa...
Agriculture is the third economic activity in Djibouti which makes up only 3 percent of the wider economy value. Djibouti depends on imports in most foods. Climatic conditions and poor soils limit farm output, and domestic food production meets about 15 of demand. 10 of the Djiboutian workforce are employed in agriculture.  History of agricultural development  In the year 1999, the amount of vegetation that was produced in Djibouti was about 23,000 tons. Agriculture consists of growing of tomatoes in the country that is usually for the purpose of household utilization and the date palms are also produced along the coastal fringes of the country. Djibouti's harsh climate does not support much variety in the flora. The production in the area of agriculture is limited to a certain extent. The official figure that was given in 1991 for employment in agriculture was about 75 percent of the total employment. Farm animals have always received greater importance in comparison to farming and agriculture, which consists of vegetables and fruits. The agricultural products of Djibouti include goats, animal hides, camels and sheep.  Land use and irrigation  Which 10 km2 dedicated...
Agriculture makes up a significant proportion of the Gambia's economy, comprising 25 of its GDP. About 75 of workers in the Gambia are employed within the agricultural industry. The main cash crops produced in the country are groundnuts , millet, sorghum, mangoes, corn, sesame, palm kernel, and cashews. The main staple crop produced is rice. Though agriculture is a major part of the Gambia's economy, food insecurity is still an issue for the population. Crop outputs only supply about 50 of the population's food needs due to low crop yields. The population heavily relies on rice, needing 398,364 metric tons each year. The Gambia only produces about 22,706 metric tons of rice each year. As a result, it needs to import around 80-90 of its rice each year. Although around 45 of land in the Gambia is used for groundnut farming, a majority of groundnuts produced are exported, further contributing to food insecurity. Climate change is also impacting agriculture in the Gambia. Crop yields are impacted by rising temperatures and seasonal drought. Salt water is mixing with freshwater in the River Gambia due to rising sea levels, causing salt erosion in rice crop fields...
Agricultural lime, also called aglime, agricultural limestone, garden lime or liming, is a soil additive made from pulverized limestone or chalk. The primary active component is calcium carbonate. Additional chemicals vary depending on the mineral source and may include calcium oxide. Unlike the types of lime called quicklime and slaked lime , powdered limestone does not require lime burning in a lime kiln it only requires milling. All of these types of lime are sometimes used as soil conditioners, with a common theme of providing a base to correct acidity, but lime for farm fields today is often crushed limestone. Historically, liming of farm fields in centuries past was often done with burnt lime the difference is at least partially explained by the fact that affordable mass-production-scale fine milling of stone and ore relies on technologies developed since the mid-19th century.  Use  Some effects of agricultural lime on soil are: it increases the pH of acidic soil, reducing soil acidity and increasing alkalinity it provides a source of calcium for plants it improves water penetration for acidic soils it improves the uptake of major plant...
California Agriculture is a quarterly peer-reviewed, scientific journal reporting news and research on agricultural, natural, and human resources that is published by the University of California Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources. The journal was established in December 1946.  Special issues  California Agriculture often has special issues that explore timely topics, which have recently included biofuels, climate change, and food as medicine.  Awards  California Agriculture has won several awards from the Association for Communication Excellence in Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Life and Human Sciences .  Open access  Full text is available for free on the journal's website, which has the complete contents dating back to 1946.  References   External links  Official website California Agriculture on Facebook
Acharya Narendra Deva University of Agriculture and Technology , is a university located in Kumarganj, Ayodhya district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It was established in 1975 and named after the politician and educator Narendra Deva, who served as vice chancellor of the University of Lucknow and Banaras Hindu University. It has constituent colleges in Ambedkar Nagar district and Azamgarh district.  History  The foundation stone of was laid on 15 January 1974, by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi at Masodha near Faizabad. Laxmi Narain Rai was the first officer on special duty, succeeded by A.S. Srivastava in October 1974 and by the first vice-chancellor, A.D. Pandey in October 1975. In the same year the government of Uttar Pradesh decided that the main campus of the university would be established at Kumarganj, Ayodhya instead of Masodha. The university started functioning in a borrowed building of Gram Swalabi Vidyalaya Acharya Nagar, Naka, Faizabad. The Mahamaya College of Agriculture Engineering and Technology was established in 2002 at Ambedkar Nagar by upgrading the department of Agriculture Engineering in the College of Agriculture.  Constituent colleges... 
Tillage is the agricultural preparation of soil by mechanical agitation of various types, such as digging, stirring, and overturning. Examples of human-powered tilling methods using hand tools include shoveling, picking, mattock work, hoeing, and raking. Examples of draft-animal-powered or mechanized work include ploughing overturning with moldboards or chiseling with chisel shanks, rototilling, rolling with cultipackers or other rollers, harrowing, and cultivating with cultivator shanks . Tillage that is deeper and more thorough is classified as primary, and tillage that is shallower and sometimes more selective of location is secondary. Primary tillage such as ploughing tends to produce a rough surface finish, whereas secondary tillage tends to produce a smoother surface finish, such as that required to make a good seedbed for many crops. Harrowing and rototilling often combine primary and secondary tillage into one operation. Tillage can also mean the land that is tilled. The word cultivation has several senses that overlap substantially with those of tillage. In a general context, both can refer to agriculture. Within agriculture, both can refer to any kind of soil...
The economic history of the United States spans the colonial era through the 21st century. The initial settlements depended on agriculture and huntingtrapping, later adding international trade, manufacturing, and finally, services, to the point where agriculture represented less than 2 of GDP. Until the end of the Civil War, slavery was a significant factor in the agricultural economy of the southern states, and the South entered the second industrial revolution more slowly than the North. The US has been the world's largest economy since about 1900.  Pre-colonial economy  Prior to the European settlement and conquest of North America, Indigenous communities led a variety of economic lifestyles. Some were primarily agrarian whereas others prioritized hunting, gathering and foraging. While some early scholarship characterized these communities as non-market, more recent scholarship has made note of substantial and wide-ranging trade networks. In particular, much of the Mississippian drainage basin was characterized by settled agriculture and large towns in the pre-colonial period. According to a 2023 study, the plains were dominated by organized, complex agricultural communities...
A cash crop, also called profit crop, is an agricultural crop which is grown to sell for profit. It is typically purchased by parties separate from a farm. The term is used to differentiate a marketed crop from a staple crop in subsistence agriculture, which is one fed to the producer's own livestock or grown as food for the producer's family. In earlier times, cash crops were usually only a small part of a farm's total yield, while today, especially in developed countries and among smallholders almost all crops are mainly grown for revenue. In the least developed countries, cash crops are usually crops which attract demand in more developed nation, and hence have some export value. Prices for major cash crops are set in international trade markets with global scope, with some local variation based on freight costs and local supply and demand balance. A consequence of this is that a nation, region, or individual producer relying on such a crop may suffer low prices should a bumper crop elsewhere lead to excess supply on the global markets. This system has been criticized by traditional farmers. Coffee is an example of a product that...
For millennia, agriculture has played an important role in the Chinese economy and society. By the time the People's Republic of China was established in 1949, virtually all arable land was under cultivation irrigation and drainage systems constructed centuries earlier and intensive farming practices already produced relatively high yields. But little prime virgin land was available to support population growth and economic development. However, after a decline in production as a result of the Great Leap Forward , agricultural reforms implemented in the 1980s increased yields and promised even greater future production from existing cultivated land.  Ancient history  Wheat entered cultivation in the lower Yellow River valley c. 2600 BC, followed by Gansu and injiang c. 1900 BC. By 1600 BC, wheat cultivation had spread to Tibet and the middle Yellow River valley.  Song dynasty, 960-1279  The Song dynasty period was a time of major growth in commercializedn agriculture, as well as economic growth mroe generally.  Ming dynasty, 1368-1644  The population doubled as new lands were settled in Fujian, Guangzhou, and Guangxi provinces, new crops were introduced, and...
The University of Maryland, College Park University of Maryland, UMD, or simply Maryland is a public land-grant research university in College Park, Maryland, United States, near Washington, D.C. Founded in 1856, UMD is the flagship institution of the University System of Maryland. The University of Maryland is the largest university in Maryland and in the Washington metropolitan area. Its eleven schools and colleges offer over 200 degree-granting programs, including 113 undergraduate majors, 107 master's programs, and 83 doctoral programs. UMD's athletic teams are known as the Maryland Terrapins and compete in NCAA Division I as a member of the Big Ten Conference. A member of the Association of American Universities, the University of Maryland's proximity to Washington, D.C. has resulted in many research partnerships with the federal government faculty receive research funding and institutional support from many agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health, NASA, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Food and Drug Administration, the National Security Agency, and the Department of Homeland Security. It is classified among R1: Doctoral Universities - very...
Mississippi State University for Agriculture and Applied Science, commonly known as Mississippi State University , is a public land-grant research university in Mississippi State, Mississippi, United States. It is classified among R1: Doctoral Universities - Very High Research Spending and Doctorate Production. The university was chartered as Mississippi Agricultural  Mechanical College on February 28, 1878, and admitted its first students in 1880. Organized into 12 colleges and schools, the university offers over 180 baccalaureate, graduate, and professional degree programs, and is home to Mississippi's only accredited programs in architecture and veterinary medicine. Mississippi State participates in the National Sea Grant College Program and National Space Grant College and Fellowship Program. The university's main campus adjacent to the city of Starkville is supplemented by auxiliary campuses in Meridian, Gautier, and Biloxi. Mississippi State's intercollegiate sports teams, the Mississippi State Bulldogs, compete in NCAA Division I athletics as members of the Southeastern Conference. Mississippi State was a founding member of the SEC in 1932. In their more-than 120-year...
Brazil nut refers to a South American tree of the monotypic genus Bertholletia in the family Lecythidaceae as well as the tree's commercially-harvested edible seeds. It is one of the largest and longest-lived trees in the Amazon rainforest. The fruit and its nutshell - containing the edible nut - are relatively large and weigh as much as 2 kg in total. As food, Brazil nuts are notable for diverse content of micronutrients, especially a high amount of selenium. The wood of the Brazil nut tree is prized for its quality in carpentry, flooring, and heavy construction. In 2024, the world production of Brazil nuts was 79,736 tonnes, with Brazil and Bolivia combined accounting for 87 of the total.  Common names  In Portuguese-speaking countries, like Brazil, they are variously called castanha-do-brasil meaning chestnut from Brazil in Portuguese, castanha-do-par meaning chestnut from Par in Portuguese, castanha-da-amaznia, castanha-do-acre, noz amaznica , noz boliviana, tocari , and tururi . In various Spanish-speaking countries of South America, Brazil...
An agricultural cooperative, also known as a farmers' co-op, is a producer cooperative in which farmers pool their resources in certain areas of activities. A broad typology of agricultural cooperatives distinguishes between agricultural service cooperatives, which provide various services to their individually-farming members, agricultural supply cooperatives, which purchase and distribute farm inputs to members, and agricultural production cooperatives in which production resources are pooled and members farm jointly. Agricultural production cooperatives include collective farms in former socialist countries, the kibbutzim in Israel, collectively-governed community shared agriculture, Longo Ma cooperatives in Costa Rica, France, and some other countries, CPAs in Cuba, and Nicaraguan production cooperatives. In Southeast Asian developing countries such as Vietnam, agricultural cooperatives remain to play an important role in economic and social activities in rural areas, although they have relied mainly on government subsidies . Notable examples of agricultural cooperatives include Dairy Farmers Of America, the largest dairy company in the US, Amul, the largest...
Agriculture in Namibia contributes around 5 of the national Gross Domestic Product though 25 to 40 of Namibians depend on subsistence agriculture and herding. Primary products included livestock and meat products, crop farming and forestry. Only 2 of Namibia's land receives sufficient rainfall to grow crops. As all inland rivers are ephemeral, irrigation is only possible in the valleys of the border rivers Orange, Kunene, and Okavango, and also at the Hardap Irrigation Scheme. As of 2020, the Minister of Agriculture, Water, and Land Reform is Calle Schlettwein. The Ministry operates a number of parastatals, including NamWater.  Economics  Although Namibian agriculture, excluding fishing, contributed between 5 and 6 of Namibia's GDP from 2004 to 2009, a large percentage of the Namibian population depends on agricultural activities for livelihood, mostly in the subsistence sector. Animal products, live animals, and crop exports constituted roughly 10.7 of total Namibian exports. The government encourages local sourcing of agriculture products. Retailers of fruits, vegetables, and other crop products must purchase 27.5 of their stock from local farmers.The 'Agriculture...
Traditionally, agriculture in Estonia has emphasized livestock production, with most crops grown for feed. Farmers also grow potatoes, vegetables, flax and sugar beet. The industry has been in great flux since the degeneration of the collective and state farm systems.  History  In 1991 roughly 12 percent of the labor force was employed in agriculture, producing 15.4 percent of Estonia's GDP. Estonia has 985,000 hectares of utilised agricultural land, 707,000 hectares of which are arable. During the Soviet era, arable land decreased by nearly 405,000 hectares, much becoming forest. Collectivization in the late 1940s and 1950s brought great hardship to Estonian agriculture, which during the first independence period had been the mainstay of Estonian society. Still, Estonian agriculture remained more productive than the Soviet average. In 1990 there were 221 collective and 117 state farms with an average of 350 to 400 workers each. The average livestock herd per farm included 1,900 cattle and 2,500 pigs. Estonia was a net exporter of meat and milk to the other republics. Agriculture also served as the basis for the republic's strong food-processing industry. For its meat production...
Agriculture in the United Kingdom uses 69 of the country's land area, employs around 446,000 people and contributes 0.6 of its gross value added . The UK currently produces about 60 of its domestic food consumption. Agricultural activity occurs in most rural locations. It is concentrated in the drier east and the wetter west . There are 191,000 farm holdings, which vary widely in size. Despite skilled farmers, advanced technology, fertile soil and subsidies, farm earnings are relatively low, mainly due to low prices at the farm gate. Low earnings, high land prices and a shortage of let farmland discourage young people from joining the industry. The average age of the British farm holder was about 60 in 2016 the UK government has stopped collecting age data for farmers. Recently there have been moves towards organic farming in an attempt to sustain profits, and many farmers supplement their income by diversifying activities away from pure agriculture. Biofuels present new opportunities for farmers against a background of rising fears about fossil fuel prices, energy security, and climate change. Intensive agriculture in the UK poses...
The environmental impact of agriculture varies widely based on practices employed by farmers and by the scale of practice. Farming communities that try to reduce environmental impacts through modifying their practices will adopt sustainable agriculture practices. The negative impact of agriculture is an old issue that remains a concern even as experts design innovative means to reduce destruction and enhance eco-efficiency. Animal agriculture practices tend to be more environmentally destructive than agricultural practices focused on fruits, vegetables and other biomass. The emissions of ammonia from cattle waste continue to raise concerns over environmental pollution. When evaluating environmental impact, experts use two types of indicators: means-based, which is based on the farmer's production methods, and effect-based, which is the impact that farming methods have on the farming system or on emissions to the environment. An example of a means-based indicator would be the quality of groundwater, which is affected by the amount of nitrogen applied to the soil. An indicator reflecting the loss of nitrate to groundwater would be effect-based. The means-based evaluation looks at...
Florida AM University is a public historically black land-grant university in Tallahassee, Florida, United States. Founded in 1887, it is the third-largest historically black university in the US by enrollment and the only public historically black university in Florida. It is a member of the State University System of Florida and is accredited to award baccalaureate, master's, and doctoral degrees by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Florida AM sports teams are known as the Rattlers, and compete in Division I of the NCAA. They are a member of the Southwestern Athletic Conference .  History  Black abolitionist Jonathan C. Gibbs first introduced legislation to create the State Normal College for Colored Students in 1885, one year after being elected to the Florida Legislature. The date also reflects the new Florida Constitution of 1885, which prohibited racial integration in schools. The college was located in Tallahassee because Leon County and adjacent counties led the state in African-American population, reflecting Tallahassee's former status as the center of Florida's slave trade. See Tallahassee's black history...
Mozambique has a variety of regional cropping patterns agro-climatic zones range from arid and semi-arid to the sub-humid zones to the humid highlands . The most fertile areas are in the northern and central provinces, which have high agro-ecological potential and generally produce agricultural surpluses. Southern provinces have poorer soils and scarce rainfall, and are subject to recurrent droughts and floods.  Production  Mozambique produced, in 2018: 8.5 million tons of cassava  3 million tons of sugarcane 1.6 million tons of maize 625 thousand tons of sweet potato 578 thousand tons of banana 343 thousand tons of tomatoes 273 thousand tons of potato 227 thousand tons of coconut 138 thousand tons of onion 134 thousand tons of rice 108 thousand tons of cashew nuts  107 thousand tons of peanut 93 thousand tons of tobacco 90 thousand tons of sorghum 89 thousand tons of cowpea 85 thousand tons of castor bean 66 thousand tons of pineapple 65 thousand tons of sesame seed 50 thousand tons of...
The economy of the state of Florida is the fourth-largest in the United States, with a 1.726 trillion gross state product as of 2024. If Florida were a sovereign nation , it would rank as the world's 15th-largest economy by nominal GDP according to the International Monetary Fund, ahead of Spain and behind South Korea. Agriculture, tourism, industry, construction, international banking, biomedical and life sciences, healthcare research, simulation training, aerospace and defense, and commercial space travel contribute to the state's economy.  Overview  Florida's economy ranks among the largest in the country. As of 2024, the gross state product is about 1.647 trillion, the fourth largest economy in the United States. According to a June 3, 2025 forecast by Florida TaxWatch, Florida's economy reached nearly US1.5 trillion in gross state product and is projected to continue growing through 2030, although at a gradually slower rate. Florida is responsible for 5.82 of the United States' approximately 28 trillion gross domestic product . As of 2024, Florida's nominal GDP is larger than all but 15 countries if it were a sovereign nation, it would be ranked...
Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University is a public research university in Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan. It is named after Pir Meher Ali Shah, a Punjabi Hanafi scholar. The university is ranked at No. 2 in the agricultureveterinary category as per the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan and 7th overall in the ranking of universities in Pakistan. Arid Agriculture University offers degree programmes leading to Bachelor, Master and Ph.D. in disciplines including Food Science  Technology, Computer Sciences, Management Sciences, Pure Sciences, Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Veterinary  Animal Sciences, Social Sciences and other Arts and Fine Arts programs.  History  In the 1970s, the government of Punjab established an agricultural college in Rawalpindi for the development of rain-fed agriculture. The college was upgraded to the level of university in 1994. The Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University is named after Chishti Sufi saint Pir Mehr Ali Shah. The University is now working on two mega projects titled DDSDP and ENCIB. There is a centre for precision agriculture and national centre for industrial biotechnology....
Agriculture in Sweden differs by region. This is due to different soils and different climate zones, with many parts of the country being more suitable to forestry. It makes more economic sense to dedicate land to forestry than agriculture in the northern and mountainous parts of the country. The southern tip of Sweden is the most agriculturally productive region. Sweden has quite short growing seasons in most parts of the country and that limits the species and productivity of agriculture. The south has the longest growing season, which in some parts of the south is in excess of 240 days. Wheat, rapeseed and other oil plants, together with sugar beet are common in southern Sweden, while barley and oat are more important further north. Barley and oats are grown mostly for animal feed, especially for pigs and poultry. The Central Swedish lowland is the traditional centre of agriculture in Sweden. Historically, agriculture has been one of the principal sectors of the Swedish economy. Agricultural production statistics are available online. In the 21st century the Swedish government has committed to securing elimination of carbon emissions from the agricultural industry by 2030. The food...
Jewel Cianeh Taylor is a Liberian politician who served as the 30th vice president of Liberia from 2018 to 2024. She was married to convicted warlord and former president Charles Taylor from 1997 to 2006 and was first lady of Liberia during his presidency. In 2005, Jewel Taylor was elected to the Senate of Liberia for Bong County as a member of the National Patriotic Party. She was Chair of the Senate Health and Social Welfare Committee on Gender, Women and Children.  Life and career  Jewel Taylor is a member of Liberia's Kpelle people. While her husband was president, Taylor held several official posts in the Liberian government, including Deputy Governor of the National Bank of Liberia forerunner to the current Central Bank of Liberia, President of the Agriculture Cooperative and Development Bank , and Mortgage Financing Underwriter of the First Union National Bank. In addition, she focused on educational, health, and social projects. Taylor holds a graduate degree in banking and two bachelors' in banking and economics. She is currently enrolled in the MBA program at Cuttington University in Liberia. On 21 December 2011, she graduated...
The Midwestern United States also referred to as the Midwest, the Heartland, the American Midwest, Middle America, or the Middle West is one of the four census regions defined by the United States Census Bureau. It occupies the northern central part of the United States. It was officially named the North Central Region by the U.S. Census Bureau until 1984. It is between the Northeastern United States and the Western United States, with Canada to the north and the Southern United States to the south. The United States Census Bureau's definition consists of 12 states in the north central United States: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. The 2020 United States census put the population of the Midwest at 68,995,685. The region generally lies on the broad Interior Plain between the states occupying the Appalachian Mountain range and the states occupying the Rocky Mountain range. Major rivers in the region include, from east to west, the Ohio River, the upper Mississippi River, and the Missouri River. The Midwest is further divided by the U.S. Census Bureau into the East North Central states and the...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 653 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Oberon is a general-purpose programming language first published in 1987 by Niklaus Wirth and the latest member of the Wirthian family of ALGOL-like languages Euler, ALGOL W, Pascal, Modula, and Modula-2. Oberon was the result of a concentrated effort to increase the power of Modula-2, the direct successor of Pascal, and simultaneously to reduce its complexity. Its principal new feature is the concept of data type extension of record types. It permits constructing new data types on the basis of existing ones and to relate them, deviating from the dogma of strict static typing of data. Type extension is Wirth's way of inheritance reflecting the viewpoint of the parent site. Oberon was developed as part of the implementation of an operating system, also named Oberon at ETH Zurich in Switzerland. The name was inspired both by the Voyager space probe's pictures of the moon of the planet Uranus, named Oberon, and because Oberon is famous as the king of the elves. Oberon was maintained by Wirth and the latest Project Oberon compiler update is dated 6 March 2020.  Design  Oberon is designed with a motto attributed to Albert Einstein in mind: Make things as simple as possible, but not...
Collimonas fungivorans is a species of bacteria in the Oxalobacteraceae family which has antifungal activity against Aspergillus niger, for example. C. fungivorans has the ability to grow on living fungal hyphae.  References   External links  Type strain of Collimonas fungivorans at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Alcantarea glaziouana is a plant species in the genus Alcantarea. This species is endemic to Brazil.  Cultivars  Alcantarea 'John Stodart'  References  Martinelli, Gustavo Vieira, Cludia Magalhes Gonzalez, Marcos Leitman, Paula Piratininga, Andra Costa, Andrea Ferreira da Forzza, Rafaela Campostrini . Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlntica Brasileira: lista de espcies, distribuio e conservao . Rodrigusia . 59 : 209-258. doi:10.15902175-7860200859114. JSTOR 23499386. BSI Cultivar Registry Retrieved 11 October 2009
Jean de Serres French:  Latin: Joannes Serranus 1540-1598 was a major French historian and an advisor to King Henry IV during the Wars of Religion that marred the French Reformation in the second half of the Sixteenth Century. As a refugee from religious persecution, he was educated in Switzerland and became a Calvinist pastor, humanist, poet, polemicist, and diplomat. His complete translation of Plato appeared in the famous 1578 edition published by Henri Estienne, which is the source of the standard 'Stephanus numbers' still used by scholars to refer to Plato's works. In 1596, de Serres was appointed 'Historian of France' by King Henry IV. His posthumously published History of France was an 'immense success' and was not superseded for almost a century.  Early life  Jean de Serres was born in 1540 at Villeneuve-de-Berg, France, in a Calvinist family. His mother was Louise de Lris . He was the brother of the celebrated agriculturalist Olivier de Serres and of another brother Raymond. Jean de Serres married a daughter of Pierre Godary and Bernardine Richier named Marguerite on April 25, 1569. The bride's family were French Protestent refugees from Lorraine...
Qu Bochuan Chinese:  pinyin: Q Bchun November 16, 1909 - February 18, 1997, was a scholar and educator in China, and principal founder of the Dalian University of Technology.  Biography  Qu was born in Luzhou, Sichuan, China. In 1928, he went to Nanjing University for his bachelor's degree of chemistry. In 1934, he went to Germany and later got his doctoral degree from the Dresden University of Technology, majoring in Chemical Engineering. Then he came back to China in 1938, exploring a way to improve the Chinese technical and educational development. Introduced by Zhou Enlai, he went to Yan'an. Later the same year, he participated in the foundation of the Yan'an Institute of Natural Science, directly reported to Mao Zedong on this project, and held the position of the academic dean of the institute. From 1938 to 1948, he served as a variety of technical development positions assigned by the central government, e.g., the director of the experimental institute of the Shanxi-Chaha'er-Hebei Military Area. Then he was sent to the city of Dalian to initiate the first tertiary technical school under the Communist Party. He then served as the first president of Dalian University...
1800 Seconds: Curated By Pusha-T, commonly referred to as 1800 Seconds, is a compilation album by ten different DIY artists curated by the hip-hop artist Pusha T, released on December 7, 2018, by Re-Up Gang Records and Mass Appeal Records. The album consists of up-and-coming voices, hailing from all over the United States. Ant White from Philly, PA, Cartel Count Up from Hampton, VA, Don Zio P from Middletown, CT, Hass Irv from Harlem, NY, Monalyse from Detroit, MI, Nita Jonez from Houston, T, Sam Austins from Detroit, MI, T Got Bank from Brooklyn, NY, Trevor Lanier from Wilmington, NC, and Tyler Thomas from Los Angeles, CA.  Track listing  Credits adapted from liner notes. Notes Track listing and credits from Tidal.  References   External links  Official website
Anne Miller is a Scottish author, scriptwriter, producer, comedian, and researcher, best known for her work on the BBC Two quiz show QI.  Early life and education  Miller was born in Fife, Scotland, and grew up in Newport and Tayport. She attended Madras College in St Andrews for secondary school and subsequently studied sociology and politics at The University of Edinburgh. She graduated with a masters in 2009. She wrote her first book at six years old.  Career  Miller joined QI in 2011 and has variously worked as scriptwriter, assistant producer, producer, and researcher on the show and many of its other projects. She is the second-most frequent guest personality on the QI podcast No Such Thing as a Fish and is a producer and head researcher for BBC Radio 4's comedy talk show The Museum of Curiosity. As part of the QI team, Miller has co-authored the following books: 1,342 QI Facts to Leave You Flabbergasted by John Lloyd, John Mitchinson, James Harkin, and Anne Miller. Published 2016, Faber  Faber. 1,423 QI Facts to Bowl You Over by John Lloyd, James Harkin, Anne Miller, and John Mitchinson. Published 2017, Faber  Faber. 2,024 QI Facts to Stop You in Your...
The Sacred Heart Cathedral Cathedral also called Punta Arenas Cathedral and Sacred Heart of Jesus Parish, is a religious building of the Catholic Church which has a Renaissance tower that is dedicated to the order of the Salesians. Its construction began on December 28, 1892, on the plans made by the Father of the Salesian order Juan Bernabe. It is located in the city of Punta Arenas in the region of Magallanes and Chilean Antarctica in the South American country of Chile. In 1584 a first temple was built. On December 28, 1892, the construction of the new church began. It would mark a milestone in the area, and would use the brick. Its interior is a basilica style with three naves Romanesque and divided by Corinthian columns is 46 meters long, 18 wide and 30.60 high. The bell tower was raised in 1898, and measures 30 meters to the cross. On February 26, 1984, it was on the outskirts of the Cathedral of Punta Arenas where General Augusto Pinochet lived one of the first protests against him. When Pinochet was ready to receive military honors in front of the town square a crowd stood on the sidewalk of the cathedral shouting slogans against him....
Abhinav Manohar Sadarangani is an Indian cricketer. He made his Twenty20 debut on 16 November 2021, for Karnataka in the preliminary quarter-finals of the 2021-22 Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, where he top-scored in the match with 70 not out. He made his List A debut on 19 December 2021, also for Karnataka, in the preliminary quarter-finals of the 2021-22 Vijay Hazare Trophy. In February 2022, he was bought by the Gujarat Titans in the auction for the 2022 Indian Premier League tournament. In 2024, Abhinav was bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL auction.  References   External links  Abhinav Manohar at Cricinfo
Jbel Lakhdar is a small mountain or hill in Morocco.  Geography  Its name means the green mountain. Its summit is 687 meters high. During the French protectorate, there was a triangulation pillar marking that the height at the top was 893 m. This mountain forms a natural border between regions of Doukkala to the west and Rahamna to the east. Jbel Lakhdar may be considered as a low, distant foothill of the Atlas Mountains in the direction of the Atlantic Ocean towards El Jadida.  Local traditions  The neighbouring tribes of Oulad Ahmed, Oulad Jerrar and Rahamna used to climb to the summit for a minor pilgrimage on the Day of Arafa. Known as pilgrimage of the poor, this custom ended in 2005.  Economy  Pastures for cattle and sheep are used by neighboring rural communities and by shepherds from Rahamna. Limits for grazing are agreed by communities, but can be disputed in the years of drought. As its name suggested, Jbel Khedar is the last green point when rainfalls are scarce. Nearby villages are deserted by their inhabitants. No touristic venture exists in the area, though there are mountain leisure opportunities and also historic centers to be...
Veliyanad is a small village in the Ernakulam District of the state of Kerala in southern India. It belongs to the Edakkattuvayal panjayat and Kanayannoor Taluk. The village is around 30 km from the city of Kochi. nearby city is Piravom The nearest airport is Cochin International Airport. Piravom Road, Ernakulam Town and Ernakulam Junction Railway Stations are the closest major railway stations. The maternal home and birthplace of Adi Shankaracharya at Veliyanad, Piravom  Etymology  The name Piravom derived from a word 'Piravi' in Malayalam means 'birth'. There are two beliefs about the etymology of the name. It is believed that the name originated from a reference to the Nativity . There is a concentration of temples named after the Puranas in and around Piravom, as against only another three so named in the rest of India. It is believed that the name originated from the story of Adi Shankara's birth. The local legend says, the origin of the name Veliyanadu is from 'VeliyamVelicham konda nadu' which means the 'land where the light evolved' might be referring to Sankaracharyas birth and the light of knowledge thus originated and spread. Also it is near to Piravom which also has...
FastTracker 2 is a music tracker created by Fredrik Mr. H Huss and Magnus Vogue Hgdahl, two members of the demogroup Triton who set about releasing their own tracker after breaking into the scene in 1992 and winning several demo competitions. The source code of FastTracker 2 is written in Pascal using Borland Pascal 7 and TASM. The program works natively under MS-DOS.  History  In 1993, Triton released FastTracker. This tracker was able to load and save standard four channel MOD files, as well as extended MOD files with six or eight channels identical to standard MOD files, aside from the extra channel data and ID markers 6CHN or 8CHN. It was only compatible with Creative Labs' SoundBlaster series of sound cards, which were most popular on the PC at that time. The whole editor was a single 43 KiB DOS executable. Through 1994, the musicians in Triton released some songs in a new multichannel M format, accompanied by a pre-release, standalone player. In November 1994, FastTracker 2 was released to the public, with support for the Gravis Ultrasound sound card.  Discontinuation  The last stable...
Michael Emerson is a fictional character and protagonist of the 1987 film The Lost Boys portrayed by Jason Patric. Michael moves to Santa Carla, California from Phoenix, Arizona with his mother Lucy and brother Sam. During his time in Santa Carla, he becomes involved with a biker gang who are revealed to be vampires and is turned by their charismatic leader, David Powers.  Fictional character biography  Michael Emerson is the son of Lucy Emerson and the older brother to Sam . He is seen as being a relatively quiet teenager interested in fitness and motorcycles. He moves from his hometown of Phoenix, Arizona to Santa Carla, California after his mother's divorce. While there, Michael becomes infatuated with a girl named Star , who appears to be in a relationship with David Powers . David challenges Michael to a deadly motorcycle race, which Michael loses, and invites him back to their hangout. While at their hangout, David taunts Michael before eventually offering him wine, which was really David's blood, turning him into a half-vampire. David and his gang hang off of the underside of an elevated train before each individually...
National Lampoon's Thanksgiving Family Reunion is a 2003 American comedy television film about a Thanksgiving family reunion of the Sniders, starring Bryan Cranston as Woodrow Snider, Judge Reinhold as Dr. Mitch Snider and Penelope Ann Miller as Jill Snider. The film premiered on TBS Superstation on November 23, 2003. The film was released as National Lampoon's Holiday Reunion in some regions.  Cast  Bryan Cranston - Woodrow Snider Judge Reinhold - Dr. Mitch Snider Penelope Ann Miller - Pauline Snider Hallie Todd - Jill Snider Meghan Ory - Allison Snider Calum Worthy - Danny Snider Britt Irvin - Twig Snider Reece Thompson - Harley Snider Antony Holland - Uncle Phil David Paetkau - Jimmy Hodges Garry Chalk - Fred Hodges Noel Fisher - Buzz Hodges Paul McGillion - Sheriff Kirkland Kris Pope - Jock 2 Dagmar Midcap - TV Reporter  See also  List of National Lampoon films  References   External links  Thanksgiving Family Reunion at IMDb Thanksgiving Family Reunion at Rotten Tomatoes
Andrew David Morton is an English journalist and writer who has published biographies of royal figures such as Diana, Princess of Wales, and celebrity subjects including Tom Cruise, Madonna, Angelina Jolie and Monica Lewinsky several of his books have been unauthorised and contain contested assertions.  Early life and career  Andrew David Morton was born and raised in Halton, Leeds, West Riding of Yorkshire, His father ran a picture framing business. He attended Temple Moor Boys' Grammar School, Leeds and Sussex University where he studied history. After university, Morton became a tabloid journalist and worked for three London tabloids, the Daily Star, News of the World, and Daily Mail, until 1987.  Biographies of royal figures  Andrew Morton wrote a biography of Diana, Princess of Wales called Diana: Her True Story. Unable to interview Diana in person, he passed along interview questions through her friend James Colthurst. In 1993 it was made into a television film of the same name, with Serena Scott Thomas as Diana. Following Diana's death in August 1997, Morton issued an edition entitled Diana: Her True Story in Her Own Words in October and acknowledged Diana...
Amsterdam University Medical Center, often shortened to Amsterdam UMC, is a collective of two teaching hospitals in Amsterdam. Formed, in 2018, after the administrative merger of the city's two university medical centers: the Academic Medical Center and the VU University Medical Center. The Academic Medical Center functioned as the University of Amsterdam's teaching hospital, while the VU University Medical Center acted as the teaching hospital for the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Both medical centers are now known as Amsterdam UMC, location AMC and Amsterdam UMC, location VUmc respectively. In 2025, Newsweek ranked Amsterdam UMC as the world's 31st best hospital and the best in the Netherlands.  Administrative Structure  The two university medical centers, administratively, merged on 7 June 2018. This means that both medical centers remain as independent legal bodies, however both executive boards are composed of the same five individuals. Including the Dean of the University of Amsterdam's Faculty of Medicine and the Dean of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam's Faculty of Medicine. On 1 January 2024, the two hospitals completed a legal merger. A logical conclusion of the merger...
Tokyo is Japan's capital city and prefecture. Defined by city proper area, it was the world's 12th largest city in 2018, with 13,515,271 residents. The history of Tokyo starts with archaeological remains in the area from around 5,000 years ago. Tokyo's oldest temple is possibly Sens-ji in Asakusa, founded in 628. The city's original name, Edo, first appears in the 12th century. From 1457 to 1640, Edo Castle was constructed, and it became the city's center. Tokugawa Ieyasu, after conquering Edo's island of Honshu in 1600, chose Edo to replace Kyoto as Japan's capital. Japan's monarchy at Kyoto became a symbolic entity, as actual power was given to Edo's Tokugawa shogunate. By the 1650s, Edo became Japan's largest city, and by 1720, it was the world's largest. The Great Fire of Meireki in 1657 killed around 108,000 people. After Japan opened itself to most foreigners in 1854, there was conflict over Japan's governance which led to the Boshin War and Meiji Restoration. The shogunate was dissolved, and the monarchy's powers were restored at Edo, renamed Tokyo. The city was destroyed by the 1923 Great Kant earthquake, and Allied bombings during World War II. Over 100,000 people died...
AIDS is caused by a human immunodeficiency virus , which originated in non-human primates in Central and West Africa. While various sub-groups of the virus acquired human infectivity at different times, the present pandemic had its origins in the emergence of one specific strain - HIV-1 subgroup M - in Lopoldville in the Belgian Congo now Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the 1920s. There are two types of HIV: HIV-1 and HIV-2. HIV-1 is more virulent, more easily transmitted, and the cause of the vast majority of HIV infections globally. The pandemic strain of HIV-1 is closely related to a virus found in chimpanzees of the subspecies Pan troglodytes troglodytes, which live in the forests of the Central African nations of Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, the Republic of the Congo, and the Central African Republic. HIV-2 is less transmissible and is largely confined to West Africa, along with its closest relative, a virus of the sooty mangabey , an Old World monkey inhabiting southern Senegal, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and western Ivory Coast.  Transmission from non-humans to humans  Research in this area is conducted...
New history may refer to: A disciplinary approach that attempts to use history to understand contemporary problems, co-founded by James Harvey Robinson in the early 20th century Nouvelle histoire, a French movement in learning that de-emphasized rote learning New Mormon history, a style of reporting the history of Mormonism Doubting Antiquity School, a historiographical approach to Chinese historical sources begun in the 1910s and 1920s Institut Nova Histria , a Catalan cultural foundation New History , an episode of the TV series Grey's Anatomy New History, song by Casiopea from Active, 1992  See also  New Historians New historicism
This is a timeline of English history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in England and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of England.  1st century BC   1st century   2nd century   3rd century   4th century   5th century   6th century   7th century   8th century   9th century   10th century   11th century   12th century   13th century   14th century   15th century   16th century   17th century   18th century   19th century   20th century   21st century   See also   City and town timelines   County timelines   Explanatory footnotes   References   Bibliography  Marsden, Peter, Sealed by Time: The Loss and Recovery of the Mary Rose. The Archaeology of the Mary Rose, Volume 1. The Mary Rose Trust, Portsmouth. 2003. ISBN 0-9544029-0-1  Further reading  George Henry Townsend , England, A Manual of Dates , London: Frederick Warne  Co. Charles E. Little , Great Britain and Ireland, Cyclopedia of Classified Dates, New York: Funk  Wagnalls Benjamin Vincent , England...
The history of Sumer spans the late fifth to the third millennium BC in southern Mesopotamia, documenting the world's first transition from Neolithic village life to a complex urban civilization. This development was catalyzed by the monumentalization of the sacred, a process where modest ritual shrines-most notably at Eridu-evolved into massive temple complexes that functioned as sacred magnets. These centers exerted a centripetal force on the landscape, triggering an urban implosion that concentrated populations into the first true metropolises, such as Uruk. To manage the resulting crisis of scale, the Sumerians pioneered fundamental technological and social innovations, including the invention of writing for bureaucratic accounting, the mass production of ceramics for rationing systems, and a centralized administrative hierarchy rooted in the divine household . While traditionally viewed as a single cradle of civilization, modern scholarship now recognizes Sumer as a primary participant in a multi-centric Near Eastern network of social complexity that laid the foundations for the first city-states and subsequent empires.  Neolithic Period  The transition...
The history of Barcelona stretches over 2000 years to its origins as an Iberian village named Barkeno. Its easily defensible location on the coastal plain between the Collserola ridge and the Mediterranean Sea, the coastal route between central Europe and the rest of the Iberian Peninsula, has ensured its continued importance, if not always preeminence, throughout the ages. Barcelona is currently a city of 1,620,943, the second largest in Spain, and the capital of the autonomous community of Catalonia. Its wider urban region is home to three-quarters of the population of Catalonia and one-eighth of that of Spain.  Origins  The origin of the earliest settlement at the site of present-day Barcelona is unclear. Remains from the Neolithic and early Chalcolithic periods have been found on the coastal plain near the city. The ruins of an early settlement have been excavated in the El Raval neighbourhood, including different tombs and dwellings dating to earlier than 5000 BC. Later, in the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC, the area was settled by the Laietani, an berian people, at Barkeno on the Tber hill in the present-day Ciutat Vella, or Old City and at Laie , believed...
The history of television begins with the work of many individuals in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Constantin Perskyi coined the word television in a paper read to the International Electricity Congress at the World's Fair in Paris on August 24, 1900. The first practical transmissions of moving images over a radio system used mechanical rotating perforated disks to scan a scene into a time-varying signal that could be reconstructed at a receiver back into an approximation of the original image. Development of television was interrupted by the Second World War. After the end of the war, all-electronic methods of scanning and displaying images became standard. Several different standards for addition of color to transmitted images were developed with different regions using technically incompatible signal standards. Television broadcasting expanded rapidly after the war, becoming an important mass medium for advertising, propaganda, and entertainment. Television broadcasts can be distributed over the air by very high frequency and ultra high frequency radio signals from terrestrial transmitting stations, by microwave signals from Earth-orbiting satellites, or...
HIStory is a 1995 song by American singer-songwriter Michael Jackson. It was composed by Jackson, James Harris III and Terry Lewis, and was included on his album HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. Although the original version of HIStory was not released as a single, it was later remixed in 1997 as part of Jackson's remix album Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix. These remixes would be released as part of HIStory  Ghosts, a double A-side single with the newly recorded song Ghosts as the second single from that album.  Production  HIStory was written and composed by Michael Jackson, James Harris III and Terry Lewis. It was released as the thirteenth track on the studio album HIStory, but was not released as a single. The song sampled multiple musical compositions and historical audio quotes, all of which were dispersed throughout the track. Early in the track, one included quotes from an interview with a young Michael Jackson from 1970. Musical compositions sampled include Beethoven Lives Upstairs and The Great Gate of Kiev from Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition. In reissues of the album, the Pictures at an Exhibition piece was replaced by...
The history of condoms goes back at least several centuries, and perhaps beyond. For most of their history, condoms have been used both as a method of birth control, and as a protective measure against sexually transmitted infections such as syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, hepatitis B and more recently HIVAIDS. Condoms have been made from a variety of materials prior to the 19th century, chemically treated linen and animal tissue are the best documented varieties. Rubber condoms gained popularity in the mid-19th century, and in the early 20th century major advances were made in manufacturing techniques. Prior to the introduction of the combined oral contraceptive pill, condoms were the most popular birth control method in the Western world. In the second half of the 20th century, the low cost of condoms contributed to their importance in family planning programs throughout the developing world. Condoms have also become increasingly important in efforts to fight the AIDS pandemic.  Antiquity  Whether condoms were used in ancient civilizations is debated by archaeologists and historians. Societies in the ancient civilizations of Egypt, Greece, and Rome...
A history journal is an academic serial publication designed to present new scholarship on a historical subject, usually a subfield of history, with articles generally being subjected to peer review.  History and development  The historical journal, a forum where academic historians could exchange ideas and publish newly discovered information, came into being in the 19th century. The early journals were similar to those for the physical sciences, and were seen as a means for history to become more professional. Journals also helped historians to establish various historiographical approaches, the most notable example of which was Annales. conomies. Socits. Civilisations., a publication instrumental in establishing the Annales School. Some historical journals are as follows: 1839 Messager des sciences historiques 1840 Historisk Tidsskrift 1859 Historische Zeitschrift 1866 Archivum historicum, later Historiallinen arkisto 1866 Revue des questions historiques 1867 Szzadok 1871 Historisk Tidsskrift 1876 Revue Historique 1881 Historisk tidskrift 1886 English Historical Review...
Tintin and the World of Herg: An Illustrated History is a book by Benoit Peeters chronicling the illustrated history of Belgian cartoonist Herg and his creation The Adventures of Tintin.  Reception  Tintin and the World of Herg is cited and appears in numerous reading lists of books about Herg and Tintin. Entertainment Weekly describes the book as an admirable account of Tintin that preserves all the mysteries of the little hero.  Translations of the book  French: Le monde d'Herg English: Tintin and the World of Herg: An Illustrated History Swedish: Herg - Boken om Tintin och hans skapare German: Herg - Ein Leben fr die Comics  References 
Poetry as an oral art form likely predates written text. The earliest poetry is believed to have been recited or sung, employed as a way of remembering oral history, genealogy, and law. Poetry is often closely related to musical traditions, and the earliest poetry exists in the form of hymns , and other types of song such as chants. As such, poetry is often a verbal art. Many of the poems surviving from the ancient world are recorded prayers, or stories about religious subject matter, but they also include historical accounts, instructions for everyday activities, love songs, and fiction. Many scholars, particularly those researching the Homeric tradition and the oral epics of the Balkans, suggest that early writing shows clear traces of older oral traditions, including the use of repeated phrases as building blocks in larger poetic units. A rhythmic and repetitious form would make a long story easier to remember and retell, before writing was available as a reminder. Thus, to aid memorization and oral transmission, surviving works from prehistoric and ancient societies appear to have been first composed in a poetic form - from the Vedas 1500-1000...
The history of glass-making dates back to around the mid-third millennium BCE. Archaeological evidence suggests that the first true glass was made in Syria, Mesopotamia or ancient Egypt. The earliest known glass objects, of the mid 2,000 BCE, were beads, perhaps initially created as the accidental by-products of metal-working or during the production of faience, a pre-glass vitreous material made by a process similar to glazing. Glass products remained a luxury until the disasters that overtook the late Bronze Age civilizations seemingly brought glass-making to a halt. Development of glass technology in India may have begun in 1,730 BCE. From across the former Roman Empire, archaeologists have recovered glass objects that were used in domestic, industrial and funerary contexts. Anglo-Saxon glass has been found across England during archaeological excavations of both settlement and cemetery sites. Glass in the Anglo-Saxon period was used in the manufacture of a range of objects, including vessels, beads, windows, and was even used in jewellery.  Origins  Naturally occurring glass, especially the volcanic glass obsidian, has been used by many Stone Age societies across the...
The history of Islam is believed, by historians, to have originated with the Islamic prophet Muhammad's mission in Mecca and Medina at the start of the 7th century CE, although Muslims regard this time as a return to the original faith passed down by the Abrahamic prophets, such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, David, Solomon, and Jesus, with the submission to the will of God. The study of early Islamic history -spanning the period up to the rise of the Abbasids- based on insufficient objective data, combined with varying methodological approaches to traditional sources, has given rise to revisionist historical theses. These challenge the narrative that the faith originated from a single root and spread across diverse regions instead, they propose that the story is a construct built retrospectively by piecing together elements developed in different locales -such as texts, legal codes, genealogies, and anecdotes- and suggest that the actual history is best explained through evolutionary-syncretic models of varying nuances. The early Muslim conquests taking place across the vast territories -which could be considered empty space- of Arabia, as well as over the expansive...
The earliest recorded systems of weights and measures originate in the 3rd or 4th millennium BC.  History of units   Units of length  Before the establishment of the decimal metric system in France during the French Revolution in the late 18th century, many units of length were based on parts of the human body. The Nippur cubit was one of the oldest known units of length. The oldest known metal standard for length corresponds to this Sumerian unit and dates from 2650 BCE. This copper bar was discovered in Nippur, on the banks of the Euphrates, and is kept in the Istanbul Archaeological Museum. Archaeologists consider that this 51.85 centimetres long unit was the origin of the Roman foot. Indeed, the Egyptians divided the Sumerian cubit into 28 fingers and 16 of these fingers gave a Roman foot of 29.633 cm.  Units of mass  The grain was the earliest unit of mass and is the smallest unit in the apothecary, avoirdupois, Tower, and troy systems. The early unit was a grain of wheat or barleycorn used to weigh the precious metals silver and gold. Larger units preserved in stone standards were developed that were used as both units of mass and of monetary currency. The pound...
The History of the Anglo-Saxons is a three volume publication by English historian Sharon Turner written between 1799 and 1805. It covers the history of England up to the Norman conquest. Under the influence of Thomas Percy's Reliques of Ancient English Poetry he compiled the first edition of the History of the Anglo-Saxons between 1799 and 1805, and became one of the earliest scholars to document Anglo-Saxon historical manuscripts in the Cottonian collection at the British Museum. By 1852, the history had seen seven editions. Immensely popular, Turner's History had immediate and lasting effects, stimulating both Anglo-Saxon studies as an academic discipline and the ideology of England as an ancient Anglo-Saxon nation. It was cited as an influence by Walter Scott in his preface to Ivanhoe and was a key step in inspiring John Mitchell Kemble's landmark 1837 edition of Beowulf. Although Turner specifically defended the idea of a single human species, his work also became important in emerging nineteenth-century theories of racial supremacism. Written and revised as Britain sailed toward the national-imperial horizons of its Victorian Age, Turner's History envisions the Anglo-Saxon...
Big History is an academic discipline that examines history from the Big Bang to the present. Big History resists specialization and searches for universal patterns or trends. It examines long time frames using a multidisciplinary approach based on combining numerous disciplines from science and the humanities. It explores human existence in the context of this bigger picture. It integrates studies of the cosmos, Earth, life, and humanity using empirical evidence to explore cause-and-effect relations. It is taught at universities as well as primary and secondary schools often using web-based interactive presentations. Historian David Christian has been credited with coining the term Big History while teaching one of the first such courses at Macquarie University. An all-encompassing study of humanity's relationship to cosmology and natural history has been pursued by scholars since the Renaissance, and the new field, Big History, continues such work.  Comparison with conventional history  Big History examines the past using numerous time scales, from the Big Bang to modernity, unlike conventional history courses which typically begin with the introduction of farming and civilization...
Conceptual history also the history of concepts or, from German, Begriffsgeschichte is a branch of historical and cultural studies that deals with the historical semantics of terms. It sees the etymology and the change in meaning of terms as forming a crucial basis for contemporary cultural, conceptual and linguistic understanding. Conceptual history deals with the evolution of paradigmatic ideas and value systems over time, such as liberty or reform. It argues that social history - indeed all historical reflection - must begin with an understanding of historically contingent cultural values and practices in their particular contexts over time, not merely as unchanging ideologies or processes.  Description and history  Interest in conceptual history was given a particular boost in the 20th century through the publication of the Historisches Wrterbuch der Philosophie, the Geschichtliche Grundbegriffe, and the journal Archiv fr Begriffsgeschichte. Conceptual history is an interdisciplinary methodology. Alongside philosopher Joachim Ritter, historians Otto Brunner, Werner Conze, and Reinhart Koselleck, and sociologist Erich Rothacker are viewed as its pioneers in the German...
The phrase ash heap of history, is a derogatory metaphorical reference to oblivion of things no longer relevant. In 1887 the English essayist Augustine Birrell coined the term in his series of essays, Obiter Dicta: that great dust heap called 'history.' A notable usage was that of the Russian Bolshevik Leon Trotsky referring to the Mensheviks: Go where you belong from now on - into the dustbin of history! as the Menshevik faction walked out of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets on 25 October 1917 in Petrograd. In a speech to the British House of Commons, on 8 June 1982, U.S. President Ronald Reagan later responded that freedom and democracy will leave Marxism and Leninism on the ash heap of history. The speech was written by Reagan's chief speechwriter, Anthony Dolan, who stated that they had deliberately echoed Trotsky's statement to throw it back in the communists' faces.  See also  Memory hole We will bury you  Notes   References 
Stephen Fry's Incomplete and Utter History of Classical Music is a book ghostwritten by Tim Lihoreau for author, actor, comedian and director Stephen Fry. It is based on Fry's regular Classic FM radio slot and is a book about the history of classical music. Fellow radio host Lihoreau has written a range of Classic FM publications along similar lines. Fry provided a Foreword in which he states that it is a very personal book . Although the book is written in the first person, the nature and extent of Fry's contribution is not otherwise explained.  References  Hardback published by Boxtree Paperback published by Pan
The oldest traces of human occupation in Paris date from about 8000 BC, during the Mesolithic period. Between 250 and 225 BC, the Parisii settled on the banks of the Seine, built bridges and a fort, minted coins, and began to trade with other river settlements in Europe. In 52 BC, a Roman army led by Titus Labienus defeated the Parisii and established a Gallo-Roman garrison town called Lutetia. The town was Christianised in the 3rd century AD, and after the collapse of the Roman Empire, it was occupied by Clovis I, the King of the Franks, who made it his capital in 508. During the Middle Ages, Paris was the largest city in Europe, an important religious and commercial centre, and the birthplace of the Gothic style of architecture. The University of Paris on the Left Bank, organised in the mid-13th century, was one of the first in Europe. It suffered from the Bubonic Plague in the 14th century and the Hundred Years' War in the 15th century, with recurrence of the plague. Between 1418 and 1436, the city was occupied by the Burgundians and English. In the 16th century, Paris became the book-publishing capital of Europe, though it was shaken by the French Wars of Religion between Catholics...
The Portable Document Format was created by Adobe Systems, introduced at the Windows and OS2 Conference in January 1993 and remained a proprietary format until it was released as an open standard in 2008. Since then, it has been under the control of an International Organization for Standardization committee of industry experts. Development of PDF began in 1991 when Adobe's co-founder John Warnock wrote a paper for a project then code-named Camelot, in which he proposed the creation of a simplified version of Adobe's PostScript format called Interchange PostScript . Unlike traditional PostScript, which was tightly focused on rendering print jobs to output devices, IPS would be optimized for displaying pages to any screen and any platform. PDF was developed to share documents, including text formatting and inline images, among computer users of disparate platforms who may not have access to mutually-compatible application software. It was created by a research and development team called Camelot, which was personally led by Warnock himself. PDF was one of a number of competing electronic document formats in that era such as DjVu, Envoy, Common Ground Digital Paper...
The Royal Historical Society , founded in 1868, is a learned society of the United Kingdom which advances scholarly studies of history.  Origins  The society was founded and received its royal charter in 1868. Until 1872 it was known as the Historical Society. In 1897, it merged with the Camden Society, founded in 1838. In its origins, and for many years afterwards, the society was effectively a gentlemen's club. In the middle and later twentieth century the RHS took on a more active role in representing the discipline and profession of history.  Current activities  The society exists to promote historical research in the United Kingdom and worldwide, representing historians of all kinds. Its activities primarily concern advocacy and policy research, training, publishing, grants and research support, especially for early career historians, and awards and professional recognition. It provides a varied programme of lectures and one-day and two-day conferences and symposia covering diverse historical topics. It convenes in London and from time to time elsewhere throughout the United Kingdom. Since 1967 it has been based at University College London.  Governance... 
The history of bras is closely tied to the social status of women, the evolution of fashion, and shifting views of the female body over time. Throughout history, women have used various garments to support, cover, restrain, reveal, enhance, or modify the appearance of their breasts. Artifacts from the Minoan civilization, dating back to the 14th century BCE, depict women wearing bikini-like garments. Some evidence suggests that during the Greco-Roman period, women had developed specialized bra-like garments to support their breasts. By the 14th century CE, the proto-bra was in development in Europe. From approximately the 16th century CE onward, the corset dominated the undergarments of wealthier women in the Western world. Corsets came in varying lengths, with some designed only to support the bust, while others extended down to shape the waist. In the latter part of the 19th century, women experimented with various alternatives, such as splitting the corset into a girdle-like shaping device for the lower torso and transferring the upper part to devices suspended from the shoulder. By the early 20th century, garments emerged that more closely resembled...
The Georgian era was a period in British history from 1714 to 1830, named after the Hanoverian kings George I, George II, George III and George IV. The definition of the Georgian era is also often extended to include the relatively short reign of William IV, which ended with his death in 1837. The subperiod that is the Regency era is defined by the regency of George IV as Prince of Wales during the illness of his father George III. The term Georgian is typically used in the contexts of social and political history and architecture. The term Augustan literature is often used for Augustan drama, Augustan poetry and Augustan prose in the period 1700-1740s. The term Augustan refers to the acknowledgement of the influence of Latin literature from the ancient Roman Republic. The term Georgian era is not applied to the time of the two 20th-century British kings of this name, George V and George VI. Those periods are simply referred to as Georgian. When Victoria became Queen in 1837 the Georgian era was followed by the Victorian era. The Victorians emphasized moral earnestness and propriety, as well as industrial and scientific progress and scientific advancement. There was a growing tension...
French Sudan was established in the late nineteenth century and occupied roughly the same territory as modern Mali.  First stamps  From 1894 to 1902, the colony of French Sudan used the general issues of the French colonies with the name of the colony. In 1903, the group-type stamps were marked SENEGAMBIA AND NIGER, the new name of the colony. In 1906, new stamps were issued marked Upper Senegal and Niger, a state which came into existence in 1904, with varied illustrations including colonial personalities: General Louis Faidherbe and Governor-General Nol Ballay in 1906 and a Tuareg horseman in 1914. All the above stamps of this colony with its successive names became uncommon for letters until 1920. In 1920, Upper Senegal and Niger became French Sudan and some of its regions became Upper Volta and Niger. The Tuareg horseman stamps were widely used in these three colonies until the late 1920s. From 1931 to 1944, the subjects were the Colonial Exhibition of 1931, Pierre and Marie Curie, the explorer Ren Cailli or the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille. But the subjects of the issues from 1931 became the most common...
International Business Machines Corporation is a multinational corporation specializing in computer technology and information technology consulting. Headquartered in Armonk, New York, the company originated from the amalgamation of various enterprises dedicated to automating routine business transactions, notably pioneering punched card-based data tabulating machines and time clocks. In 1911, these entities were unified under the umbrella of the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company . Thomas J. Watson assumed the role of general manager within the company in 1914 and ascended to the position of President in 1915. By 1924, the company rebranded as International Business Machines. IBM diversified its offerings to include electric typewriters and other office equipment. Watson, a proficient salesman, aimed to cultivate a highly motivated, well-compensated sales force capable of devising solutions for clients unacquainted with the latest technological advancements. In the 1940s and 1950s, IBM began its initial forays into computing, which constituted incremental improvements to the prevailing card-based system. A pivotal moment arrived in the 1960s with the introduction...
The history of Armenia covers the topics related to the history of the Republic of Armenia, as well as the Armenian people, the Armenian language, and the regions of Eurasia historically and geographically considered Armenian. Armenia is located between Eastern Anatolia and the Armenian highlands, surrounding the Biblical mountains of Ararat. The endonym of the Armenians is hay, and the old Armenian name for the country is Hayk' Armenian: , which also means Armenians in Classical Armenian, later Hayastan . Armenians traditionally associate this name with the legendary progenitor of the Armenian people, Hayk. The names Armenia and Armenian are exonyms, first attested in the Behistun Inscription of Darius the Great. The early Armenian historian Movses Khorenatsi derived the name Armenia from Aramaneak, the eldest son of the legendary Hayk. Various theories exist about the origin of the endonym and exonyms of Armenia and Armenians . In the Bronze Age, several states flourished in the Armenian highlands, including the Hittite Empire , Mitanni , and Hayasa-Azzi . Soon...
Vietnam, with its coastal strip, rugged mountainous interior, and two major deltas, became home to numerous cultures throughout history. Its strategic geographical position in Southeast Asia also made it a crossroads of trade and a focal point of conflict, contributing to its complex and eventful past. During the Paleolithic period, the first Ancient East Eurasian hunter-gatherers arrived at least 40,000 years ago. Since the Neolithic period, Austroasiatic, as well as Austronesian, Hmong-Mien, Kra-Dai, and Sino-Tibetan peoples that lived across Southeast Asia and Southern China, contributed to the agricultural development and ethnolinguistic landscape of Vietnam. In the first millennium BCE the ng Sn culture emerged, based on rice cultivation and focused on the indigenous chiefdoms of Vn Lang and u Lc. Following the 111 BCE Han conquest of Nanyue, much of Vietnam came under Chinese dominance for a thousand years. The period nonetheless saw numerous uprisings, and Vietnamese kingdoms occasionally enjoyed de facto independence. Buddhism and Hinduism arrived by the 2nd century CE, making Vietnam the first place which shared influences of both Chinese and Indian cultures. Independence...
Business history is a historiographical field which examines the history of firms, business methods, government regulation and the effects of business on society. It also includes biographies of individual firms, executives, and entrepreneurs. It is related to economic history. It is distinct from company history which refers to official histories, usually funded by the company itself.  United States   Robber baron debate  Even before academic studies began, Americans were enthralled by the Robber baron debate. As the United States industrialized very rapidly after the Civil War, a few hundred prominent men made large fortunes by building and controlling major industries, such as railroads, shipping, steel, mining and banking. Yet the newer who gathered the most attention was railroader Cornelius Vanderbilt. Historian Stephen Frazier argues that probably most Americans admired Vanderbilt they agreed with biographer William Augustus Croffut who wrote in 1886: It is now known that the desire to own property is the chief difference between the Savage and the enlightened man that aggregations of money in the hands of individuals are in inestimable blessing to Society, for...
The History of the Caucasian Albanians or The History of the Land of Aghvank Armenian:    by Movses Kaghankatvatsi is a history of eastern territories of Armenia , as well as other territories in Southeastern Caucasus usually described as Caucasian Albania. The work was written in Old Armenian. It covers the 500-1100 AD period. In the works of earlier Armenian authors, no name was attached to the work. Early in the 13th century, however, Mkhitar Gosh named Movses Dasxurants'i as the author. The earliest extant manuscript of The History, also of the 13th century , bears no author's name nor do other manuscripts. The earliest manuscript to bear the name of Movses Kalankatuaci is that copied by scribe Lunkianos in 1761. The date of the compilation known as The History is based on the fact that the last person to have a hand in The History wrote at the earliest at the end of the 11th or the beginning of the 12th century.  Publications and translations  Movses Kaghankatvatsi . History of Aghuank in original Old-Armenian  .  , critical text and introduction by Varag Arrakelian...
Algebra can essentially be considered as doing computations similar to those of arithmetic but with non-numerical mathematical objects. However, until the 19th century, algebra consisted essentially of the theory of equations. For example, the fundamental theorem of algebra belongs to the theory of equations and is not considered as belonging to algebra in fact, every proof must use the completeness of the real numbers, which is not an algebraic property. This article describes the history of the theory of equations, referred to in this article as algebra, from the origins to the emergence of algebra as a separate area of mathematics.  Etymology  The word algebra is derived from the Arabic word  al-jabr, and this comes from the treatise written in the year 830 by the medieval Persian mathematician, Al-Khwrizm, whose Arabic title, Kitb al-mutaar f isb al-abr wa-l-muqbala, can be translated as The Compendious Book on Calculation by Completion and Balancing. The treatise provided for the systematic solution of linear and quadratic equations. According to one history, t is not certain just what the terms al-jabr and muqabalah mean, but the usual interpretation...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 665 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
It has been hypothesized that substantial progress in artificial general intelligence and artificial superintelligence will lead to human extinction or an irreversible global catastrophe. One argument is that human beings dominate other species because the human brain possesses capabilities other animals lack. If AI were to surpass human intelligence and become superintelligent, it might become uncontrollable. Just as the fate of the mountain gorilla depends on human goodwill, the fate of humanity could depend on the actions of a future machine superintelligence. Experts disagree on whether artificial general intelligence can achieve the capabilities needed for human extinction. Debates center on AGI's technical feasibility, the speed of self-improvement, and the effectiveness of strategies to keep it aligned with human values. Concerns about superintelligence have been voiced by researchers including Geoffrey Hinton, Yoshua Bengio, Demis Hassabis, and Alan Turing, and AI company CEOs such as Dario Amodei , Sam Altman , and Elon Musk . In 2023, hundreds of AI experts and other notable figures signed a statement declaring, Mitigating the risk...
The Artificial Intelligence Act is a European Union regulation concerning artificial intelligence . It establishes a common regulatory and legal framework for AI within the European Union . The regulation entered into force on 1 August 2024, with provisions that shall come into operation gradually over the following 6 to 36 months. It covers most AI systems across a wide range of sectors, with exemptions for AI used only for military, national security, research purposes, or for non-professional use. As a form of product regulation, it does not create individual rights instead, it places duties on AI providers and on organisations that use AI in a professional context. The Act classifies non-exempt AI applications by their risk of causing harm. There are four levels - unacceptable, high, limited, minimal - plus an additional category for general-purpose AI. Applications with unacceptable risks are banned. High-risk applications must comply with security, transparency and quality obligations, and undergo conformity assessments. Limited-risk applications only have transparency obligations. Minimal-risk applications are not regulated. For general-purpose AI, transparency...
This glossary of artificial intelligence is a list of definitions of terms and concepts relevant to the study of artificial intelligence , its subdisciplines, and related fields. Related glossaries include Glossary of computer science, Glossary of robotics, Glossary of machine vision, and Glossary of logic.  A  A search Pronounced A-star.A graph traversal and pathfinding algorithm which is used in many fields of computer science due to its completeness, optimality, and optimal efficiency. abductive logic programming A high-level knowledge-representation framework that can be used to solve problems declaratively based on abductive reasoning. It extends normal logic programming by allowing some predicates to be incompletely defined, declared as abducible predicates. abductive reasoning Also abduction.A form of logical inference which starts with an observation or set of observations then seeks to find the simplest and most likely explanation. This process, unlike deductive reasoning, yields a plausible conclusion but does not positively verify it. abductive inference, or retroduction ablation The removal of a component of an AI system. An ablation study aims to determine...
Artificial intelligence and its subfields have been used in applications throughout industry and academia. Machine learning has been used for various scientific and commercial purposes, including language translation, image recognition, decision-making, credit scoring, and e-commerce. Since the 2020s, massive advancements have been made in the field of generative AI as a result of the 2017 inception of Transformer Model architecture. GenAI has the ability to create text, images, voice, music, videos, and other forms of data from chat-based prompting.  Agriculture  In agriculture, AI has been proposed as a way for farmers to identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, or pesticide treatments to increase yields, thereby improving efficiency. AI has been used to attempt to classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and optimize irrigation.  AI-assisted software development   Physical AI   Architecture and design  AI in architecture is the use of AI in automation, design, and planning in the architectural process or in assisting human skills in the field of architecture. AI has been used by some architects...
Artificial intelligence in education is a subfield of educational technology that studies how to use artificial intelligence to create learning environments. Considerations in the field include data-driven decision-making, AI ethics, data privacy, and AI literacy. Concerns include the potential for cheating, over-reliance, equity of access, reduced critical thinking, and the perpetuation of misinformation and bias.  History  Efforts to integrate AI into educational contexts have often followed technological advancement in the history of artificial intelligence. In the 1960s, educators and researchers began developing computer-based instruction systems, such as PLATO, developed by the University of Illinois. In the 1970s, AI techniques were added to computer-assisted instruction to form intelligent tutoring systems. The LISP Tutor was evaluated in a Carnegie Mellon University mini-course in the fall of 1984. The International Artificial Intelligence in Education Society was founded in 1993, and comprised researchers with backgrounds in computer science, education, and psychology. The International AIED Society also produces the International...
This is a timeline of artificial intelligence, also known as synthetic intelligence.  Antiquity, Classical and Medieval eras   1600-1900   20th century   1901-1950   1950s   1960s   1970s   1980s   1990s   21st century   2000s   2010s   2020s   See also  Timeline of machine translation Timeline of machine learning Timeline of artificial intelligence risks in global finance  Notes   References   Sources  Buchanan, Bruce G. , A Brief History of Artificial Intelligence , AI Magazine, pp. 53-60, archived from the original on 26 September 2007, retrieved 30 August 2007 Christian, Brian . The Alignment Problem: Machine learning and human values. W. W. Norton  Company. ISBN 978-0-393-86833-3. OCLC 1233266753. Crevier, Daniel . AI: The Tumultuous Search for Artificial Intelligence. New York, NY: BasicBooks. ISBN 0-465-02997-3. Linsky, Bernard Irvine, Andrew David . Edward N. Zalta . Principia Mathematica. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. McCorduck, Pamela , Machines Who Think , Natick, MA: A. K. Peters, Ltd., ISBN 978-1-56881-205-2 Needham, Joseph...
Below is a list of notable companies that primarily focus on artificial intelligence . Companies that simply make use of AI but have a different primary focus are not included.  America   Canada  BlueDot Cohere Element AI Maluuba Waabi  United States   Asia   China   Hong Kong  Artisse AI  India  Haptik NeuralGarage Sarvam AI  Israel  AI21 Labs Aidoc Decart Hailo Technologies  Japan  Sakana AI  Saudi Arabia  Humain  South Korea  Upstage  United Arab Emirates  G42  Europe   France   Germany  Aleph Alpha DeepL Helsing  Italy  Translated  Lithuania  Neurotechnology  Netherlands  Axelera AI Cradle  Portugal  Unbabel  Sweden  Furhat Robotics Lovable  Switzerland  Art Recognition  Ukraine  Respeecher  United Kingdom   See also  List of AI-assisted software development tools List of artificial intelligence institutions List of artificial intelligence projects List of chatbots List of robotics companies List of self-driving car companies List of self-driving system suppliers List of university artificial intelligence research centers Lists of open-source artificial intelligence software 2...
Generative artificial intelligence is a subfield of artificial intelligence that uses generative models to generate text, images, videos, audio, software code or other forms of data. These models learn the underlying patterns and structures of their training data, and use them to generate new data in response to input, which often takes the form of natural language prompts. The prevalence of generative AI tools has increased significantly since the AI boom in the 2020s. This boom was made possible by improvements in deep neural networks, particularly large language models , which are based on the transformer architecture. Generative AI applications include chatbots such as ChatGPT, Claude, Microsoft Copilot, DeepSeek, Doubao, Google Gemini, Grok, Kimi and Qwen text-to-image models such as DALL-E, Firefly, Stable Diffusion, and Midjourney and text-to-video models such as Veo, LT and Sora. Companies in a variety of sectors have used generative AI, including those in software development, healthcare, finance, entertainment, sales and marketing, writing, and product design. Generative AI has been used for cybercrime, and to deceive and manipulate people through fake...
The ethics of artificial intelligence covers a broad range of topics within AI that are considered to have particular ethical stakes. This includes algorithmic biases, fairness, accountability, transparency, privacy, and regulation, particularly where systems influence or automate human decision-making. It also covers various emerging or potential future challenges such as machine ethics how to make machines that behave ethically, lethal autonomous weapon systems, arms race dynamics, AI safety and alignment, technological unemployment, AI-enabled misinformation, how to treat certain AI systems if they have a moral status , artificial superintelligence and existential risks. Some application areas may also have particularly important ethical implications, like healthcare, education, criminal justice, or the military.  Machine ethics  Machine ethics is the field of research concerned with designing Artificial Moral Agents , robots or artificially intelligent computers that behave morally or as though moral. To account for the nature of these agents, it has been suggested to consider certain philosophical ideas, like the standard...
A superintelligence is a hypothetical agent that possesses intelligence surpassing that of the most gifted human minds. Philosopher Nick Bostrom defines superintelligence as any intellect that greatly exceeds the cognitive performance of humans in virtually all domains of interest. Technological researchers disagree about how likely present-day human intelligence is to be surpassed. Some argue that advances in artificial intelligence will probably result in general reasoning systems that lack human cognitive limitations. Others believe that humans will evolve or directly modify their biology to achieve radically greater intelligence. Several future study scenarios combine elements from both of these possibilities, suggesting that humans are likely to interface with computers, or upload their minds to computers, in a way that enables substantial intelligence amplification. The hypothetical creation of the first superintelligence may or may not result from an intelligence explosion or a technological singularity. Some researchers believe that superintelligence will likely follow shortly after the development of artificial general intelligence. The first generally intelligent machines...
Regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence . The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions worldwide, including for international organizations without direct enforcement power like the IEEE or the OECD. Since 2016, numerous AI ethics guidelines have been published in order to maintain social control over the technology. Furthermore, organizations deploying AI have a central role to play in creating and implementing trustworthy AI, adhering to established principles, and taking accountability for mitigating risks. The European Union adopted in 2024 a common legal framework for AI with the AI Act. AI governance is a term used in policy, industry, and academic contexts to describe how AI systems are directed and overseen. A 2025 systematic literature review defined it as encompassing the questions of who is accountable for AI systems, what elements are governed, when governance occurs within the development lifecycle, and how it is implemented through frameworks, tools, or models. Charlotte Stix noted that related terms, including trustworthy AI...
Weak artificial intelligence is artificial intelligence that implements a limited part of the mind, or, as narrow AI, artificial narrow intelligence , is focused on one narrow task. Weak AI is contrasted with strong AI, which can be interpreted in various ways: Artificial general intelligence : a machine with the ability to apply intelligence to any problem, rather than just one specific problem. Artificial superintelligence : a machine with a vastly superior intelligence to the average human being. Artificial consciousness: a machine that has consciousness, sentience and mind John Searle uses strong AI in this sense. Narrow AI can be classified as being limited to a single, narrowly defined task. Most modern AI systems would be classified in this category. Artificial general intelligence is conversely the opposite.  Applications and risks  Some examples of narrow AI are AlphaGo, self-driving cars, robot systems used in the medical field, and diagnostic doctors. Narrow AI systems are sometimes dangerous if unreliable. And the behavior that it follows can become inconsistent. It could be difficult for the AI to grasp complex patterns and get to a...
The philosophy of artificial intelligence is a branch of the philosophy of mind and the philosophy of computer science that explores artificial intelligence and its implications for knowledge and understanding of intelligence, ethics, consciousness, epistemology, and free will. Furthermore, the technology is concerned with the creation of artificial animals or artificial people or, at least, artificial creatures see artificial life, so the discipline is of considerable interest to philosophers. These factors contributed to the emergence of the philosophy of artificial intelligence. The philosophy of artificial intelligence attempts to answer such questions as: Can a machine act intelligently? Can it solve any problem that a person would solve by thinking? Are human intelligence and machine intelligence the same? Is the human brain essentially a computer? Can a machine have a mind, mental states, and consciousness in the same sense that a human being can? Can it feel how things are? Questions like these reflect the divergent interests of AI researchers, cognitive scientists and philosophers respectively. The scientific answers to these questions depend...
Music software utilizes artificial intelligence to generate, classify, or recommend music. Similar to its applications in other fields, AI in music simulates complex human cognitive processes. A prominent feature is the capability of an AI algorithm to learn from historical data, such as in computer accompaniment technology, where the AI listens to a human performer and accompanies them in real-time. Artificial intelligence also drives interactive composition technologies that respond dynamically to live performances. Modern applications expand across the entire industry lifecycle, transforming music composition, production, and performance, as well as how music is marketed and consumed. Furthermore, conversational agents leverage voice recognition and natural language processing to enable voice-controlled music playback, bridging current research in music theory with advanced digital sound processing.  History  In the 1950s and the 1960s, music made by artificial intelligence was not fully original, but generated from templates that people had already defined and given to the AI, with this being known as rule-based systems. As time passed, computers became more powerful, which...
Artificial intelligence in video games refers to the computational systems that control non-player characters , generate dynamic game behavior, or simulate strategic decision-making. In practice, the term covers a broad range of techniques drawn from computer science, control theory, and robotics rather than true artificial intelligence. Moreover, academic AI-aimed at developing autonomous reasoning or learning-is distinct from game AI, whose goal is to deliver engaging, believable, and efficient behavior for players. The term CPU in video games refer to the AI that control a NPC that could be a playable character in some other situations. In general, game AI does not, as might be thought and sometimes is depicted to be the case, mean a realization of an artificial person corresponding to an NPC in the manner of the Turing test or an artificial general intelligence.  Overview  The term game AI is used to refer to a broad set of algorithms that also include techniques from control theory, robotics, computer graphics and computer science in general, and so video game AI may often not constitute true AI in that such techniques do not necessarily facilitate computer learning...
United States lightship No. 113, known as Swiftsure, was a steel-hulled lightship in commission with the United States Lighthouse Service as LV-113 from 1929 to 1939, and in the fleet of the United States Coast Guard as WAL-535 from 1939 until 1968. During World War II, she was given the designation USS YP-397.  History  She was laid down at the Albina Marine Iron Works, a subsidiary of the Albina Engine and Machine Works, in Portland, Oregon, and launched on 1 July 1929. She had two masts each capped with a 375mm electric lens lantern and a 4-way air diaphone fog horn. During World War II, she was reassigned to the Alaskan Sea Frontier to serve as an examination vessel. Designated as a Yard Patrol Craft YP-397, she was painted grey and armaments added: a 450 caliber gun forward, two .50 caliber machine guns on either side of the bridge, one .30 caliber machine gun aft, and a Y gun with 17 depth charges. She was assigned to the Icy Strait at the northern entrance to the Inside Passage between Cape Spencer on the Alaskan mainland to the north and Indian Head Light, on Chichagof Island to the south. She remained on station continuously sending a launch for provisions...
FC Bulat Cherepovets  was a Russian football team from Cherepovets. It played professionally in 1960-1970, 1979-1986 and 1989-1996. Their best result was 2nd place in Zone 1 of the Soviet First League in 1961 they played on that level from 1960 to 1962.  Team name history  1960-1978: FC Metallurg Cherepovets 1979-1988: FC Stroitel Cherepovets 1989-1991: FC Khimik Cherepovets 1992-1996: FC Bulat Cherepovets  External links  Team history at KLISF
Conor Corbett is an Irish Gaelic footballer who plays for Cork SAFC club Clyda Rovers and at inter-county level with the Cork senior football team. He usually lines out as a forward.  Career  Corbett played Gaelic football at school level with the Patrician Academy in Mallow. He won several titles with the school throughout 2019 and 2020, including the Simcox Cup. Corbett also lined out at juvenile and underage levels with the Clyda Rovers club before making his senior team debut in 2020. Corbett first lined out at inter-county level as captain of the Cork minor football team that beat Galway in the 2019 All-Ireland minor final. Corbett was subsequently named Minor Footballer of the Year. He was included on the Cork under-20 football team in 2020 and 2021, however, his progress onto the senior team was stalled after suffering a cruciate ligament injury. Corbett was included on the senior team's training panel in 2022.  Career statistics   Club  As of 14 September 2025  Inter-county  As of 13 June 2026  Honours  Patrician Academy Simcox Cup: 2019 Munster Colleges Senior B Football Championship: 2020 Cork Munster Under-20 Football Championship...
Emilie Kirstine Valborg Sannom was a Danish silent film actress and aerial acrobat. Throwing herself into the castle moat in Nordisk Film's Hamlet , she became the first stunt woman in Danish cinema. She went on to play dangerous roles in numerous films, sometimes as the leading actress. Sannon retired from the cinema in 1923 but continued to perform on the stage, in circuses or making risky parachute jumps. In 1931, at an air show in Grenaa, some 8,000 spectators saw her fall to her death when her parachute failed to open.  Biography  Born on 29 September 1886 in Nrrebro, near Copenhagen, Emilie Kirstine Valborg Sannom was the daughter of the seaman Fritz Emil Sophus Sannom and Johanne Kamilla Hansen . When she was 11 months old, the family moved to Florida. They had hoped to become rich there but returned to Denmark seven years later after unsuccessfully running an orange plantation. She and her sisters Charlotte , Thora and Ragnhild all became actresses, apparently from an early age. After appearing on stage and perhaps taking minor parts in earlier films, in 1909 she performed...
The Dream Never Dies is a song written by Richard Cooper. It was first recorded by his band The Cooper Brothers in 1978 and included on their self-titled Capricorn Records album. It was also released as a single, bw Rock and Roll Cowboys. American country singer-songwriter Bill Anderson released it as a single in 1979 via MCA Records and had a top 40 hit single. Juice Newton also recorded the song that same year and released on her Take Heart album.  Bill Anderson Background  The Dream Never Dies was recorded in August 1977 in Nashville, Tennessee. The session was produced by Buddy Killen, who recently became Anderson's producer after many years of working with Owen Bradley. Killen would continue producing Anderson until his departure from MCA Records. It was the only song recorded during this particular studio session. The Dream Never Dies was released as a single by MCA Records in July 1979. The song spent nine weeks on the Billboard Hot Country Singles before reaching number 40 in August 1979. It was among Anderson's final top 40 singles of his career. It was also his second single to not become a major hit since 1975. In Canada, the single only reached number...
Nina Becker Nunes is a Brazilian singer-songwriter.  Life and career  Born in Rio de Janeiro, Becker is the stepdaughter of conductor Roberto Gnattali and the niece of composer Radams Gnattali. She studied graphic design, and before starting her musical career she worked as set designer and art director. In 2002, Becker began performing as a singer with Orquestra Imperial, and in 2004 she started a parallel solo live career, also taking part to other musical projects, notably 3NaMassa. In 2009, she received the APCA Award for best singer. She made her record debut in 2010, with the albums Azul and Vermelho. Becker is married to Marcelo Callado, the bassist of the band Do Amor, with whom in 2012 she released the collaboration album Gambito Budapeste. She is also a stylist.  Discography  Albums Azul Vermelho Gambito Budapeste Minha Dolores - Nina Becker Canta Dolores Duran Acrlico  References   External links  Nina Becker at AllMusic Nina Becker discography at Discogs Nina Becker at IMDb
The BSRB formerly Bandalag starfsmanna rkis og bja or Confederation of State and Municipal Employees of Iceland is a federation of trade union in Iceland. It was formed in 1942 and is the largest federation of employees in the public sector in Iceland with 25 member unions with over 21,000 members in total. About two in every three members are women. The BSRB is affiliated with the International Trade Union Confederation, the European Trade Union Confederation, the Council of Nordic Trade Unions and Public Services International.  References  ICTUR et al., eds. . Trade Unions of the World . London, UK: John Harper Publishing. ISBN 0-9543811-5-7.  External links  www.bsrb.is
Oasis Academy Oldham is a coeducational secondary school with academy status for 11- to 16-year-olds in the Hollinwood area of Oldham, Greater Manchester, England. The academy's motto is creating a community of choices and chances. The academy was formed from a merger of Kaskenmoor School in Hollinwood and South Chadderton School in Chadderton. The academy is sponsored by the Oasis Trust. When in 2016 the Collective Spirit Free School was closed, Oasis Academy Oldham accepted many of the 230 displaced children into years 7,8,9,10 and 11.  History  The academy was formed in 2010 from a merger of Kaskenmoor School in Hollinwood and South Chadderton School in Chadderton. These schools had a reputation for indiscipline. It moved into its own buildings in September 2012. It was inspected by Ofsted in late November. They were complimentary of the behaviour of the students and the enthusiasm of the newly appointed headteacher but rated everything else to be inadequate. The school was originally staffed by teachers from the preceding schools. In 2011, the previous principal left the school and 20 staff also in August 2012: staffing was not stable, routines and procedures were not in place...
Victoria Milou Mackenzie is an American politician. She is a Republican member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, and has represented the 131st district since 2021. She is the mother of Ryan Mackenzie, a representative for Pennsylvania's 7th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives. Prior to Ryan Mackenzie's election to his current role, they were the first mother-son pair to simultaneously serve in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives.  Biography  Mackenzie graduated from Nazareth High School in 1968 and received a BA in English from Cedar Crest College in 1972. In 2020, Mackenzie was elected to the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, representing the 131st District, which includes parts of Northampton County, Lehigh County, and Montgomery County. She defeated Democratic candidate Kevin Branco with 54.3 of the vote in the general election.  References   External links  Official website Pennsylvania House of Representatives profile Profile at Vote Smart
This is a list of monarchs who lost their thrones in the 16th century. This list currently holds 27 countries.  Austria  Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, the title of Archduke of Austria passed over to Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor in 1521.  Aztec Empire  Cuauhtmoc, the last independent Emperor of the Aztecs, deposed by Spain in 1521, died 1525. Luis Nanacacipactzin was the last dynastic-lined ruler up to his death in 1565.  Badakhshan  Humayun Mughal Emperor of India 1530-1539 and 1555-1556, ruler of Badakhshan 1520-1529, deposed or abdicated 1529, died 1556.  Egypt  Al-Mutawakkil III, Abbasid Caliph of Cairo, deposed 1516, restored 1517.  Cambodia  Brhat Pada Samdach Sdach Brhat Rajankariya Brhat Mahindra Rajadhiraja Ramadipati Sri Suriya Varman Maha Chakrapati Varman Naranga Ridhi Sanditya Isvara Kambul Krung Kambuja Adipati Sri Sudhara Pawara Indrapada Gururatta Rajadhaniya Tissarana Naya Mahayana Jathi Brhat Paramanatha Parama Bupati Jaya Amachas Mahindaraja of Cambodia, King of Cambodia, deposed 1594.  Castile  Ferdinand II of Aragon, King of Castile with Isabella I. Castile passed over to Joanna I and Philip of Burgundy in...
Catocala leechi is a moth of the family Erebidae first described by George Hampson in 1913. It is found in Kashmir.  References   External links  Catocala leechi. The Witt Catalogue - A Taxonomic Atlas of the Eurasian and North African Noctuioidea. Museum Witt Mnchen. With image.
Cicero's Brutus is a history of Roman oratory. It is written in the form of a dialogue, in which Marcus Junius Brutus and Titus Pomponius Atticus ask Cicero to describe the qualities of all the leading Roman orators up to their time. Cicero then attempts to propose a reconstruction of Roman history. Although it is written in the form of a dialogue, the majority of the talking is done by Cicero with occasional intervention by Brutus and Atticus. The work was probably composed in 46 BC, with the purpose of defending Cicero's own oratory. He begins with an introductory section on Greek oratory of the Attic, Asiatic, and Rhodian schools, before discussing Roman orators, beginning with Lucius Junius Brutus, The Liberator, though becoming more specific from the time of Marcus Cornelius Cethegus.  Characters  Cicero - He is the main figure of the work. He strengthens the idea that after the civil war, many of the good orators have either left or fled Rome. The few individuals who stayed behind are hiding in silence. Cicero recalls his visits to the forum and some of the orators he has been able to hear. He also mentions his study of eloquence...
Sir John Clerk of Pennycuik, 5th Baronet FRSE was a Royal Navy officer. Active in the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh, he thereby became a founder fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh upon its formation in 1783.  Life  He was born in Midlothian the son of Sir George Clerk-Maxwell and his wife, Dorothea. John became a baronet upon the death of his father in 1784. He became Director of the Highland Society in 1785. He died on 24 February 1798 and is buried with his wife, Rosemary Dacre Appleby in Penicuik churchyard. They had no children and the baronetcy passed to his nephew George.  Artistic recognition  A famous portrait of Sir John and Lady Clerk, by Sir Henry Raeburn, is held by the National Gallery of Ireland.  References 
Violent Cop , Sono Otoko, Kyb Ni Tsuki lit. 'That Man, Being Violent' is a 1989 Japanese neo-noir action thriller film directed by Takeshi Kitano, written by Kitano and Hisashi Nozawa, and starring Kitano, Maiko Kawakami, Makoto Ashikawa, Hakuryu, Ken Yoshizawa, and Ittoku Kishibe. It follows Azuma, a Japanese police detective known for his rough and unprofessional conduct, after he is assigned to investigate drug trafficking by the yakuza. It was Kitano's directorial debut, and marked the beginning of his career as a filmmaker. Takeshi Kitano rewrote most of the film's original screenplay by Hisashi Nozawa.  Plot  Azuma is a police detective who lives with his intellectually disabled sister Akari and has a gambling problem that forces him to constantly borrow money. He also has a strong sense of morality and a reputation for using excessive violence when dealing with criminals, ignoring police rules and regulations when they become inconvenient for instance, after witnessing a gang of teenage boys beat up a homeless man for fun, he enters the home of the gang's leader and beats him before making him promise to turn himself and his...
Kandreho is a municipality in western Madagascar in Betsiboka Region approximately 200 kilometres north-west of the capital Antananarivo. It is situated at 144 km from Maevatanana.  See also  Mahavavy Sud River Kandreho Formation Kasijy Reserve  References  Alimentation en Eau potable - Ville de Kandreho
Necessary is a song by the Japanese J-pop group Every Little Thing, released as their tenth single on September 30, 1998.  Track listing  Necessary Necessary Necessary  Charts   References   External links  Necessary information at Avex Network. Necessary information at Oricon.
Samuel Lines was an English designer, painter and art teacher, and an early member of the Birmingham School of landscape painters. A significant figure in the development of art in Birmingham during its rapid growth in the early nineteenth century, Lines pioneered the teaching of drawing and painting in the town and was one of the founders of the life drawing academy that would eventually evolve into the Royal Birmingham Society of Artists and Birmingham School of Art.  Life  Samuel Lines was born in the village of Allesley in Warwickshire, where his mother was a schoolmistress. After a period working in agriculture for his uncle he moved to Birmingham in 1794 and secured an apprenticeship as a designer to Thomas Keeling, a firm of clockmakers and enamellers. Lines was then employed by Messrs Osborn and Gunby of Bordesley as a sword blade decorator, designer and engraving to the highest standard. Lines studied drawing under Joseph Barber at the latter's academy on Great Charles Street, and in 1807 opened his own academy for training pupils in drawing and painting in Newhall Street. This was so successful that he was able to build his own house in Temple...
The California State Association of Counties is a lobbying, advocacy and service organization representing the state's 58 counties at the state and federal level. Areas of focus include the state budget, health-care reform, corrections reform, transportation funding, water and climate change. CSAC is governed by a 62-member board of directors and 15-member executive committee, led by Graham Knaus, Chief Executive Officer. Knaus previously served as the Assistant Director of Health and Human Services for Placer County. As of 2010, the organization has an annual operating budget of 8.7 million. The organization's offices are a block from the state's capitol building in Sacramento. In 2009 during California's budget crisis, the organization pushed for additional funding for counties and helped draft a lawsuit opposing a proposed plan to divert about 4 billion in tax revenues to the state from local governments.  History  The organization's origins date back to informal meetings among county supervisors. The County Boards of Supervisors Association of California began meeting in 1895, later becoming the County Supervisors Association of California and then, in 1991, the...
Mie aceh or mi aceh is an Acehnese curried spicy noodle dish.  Ingredients  The thick yellow noodles are served with slices of beef, goat meat, lamb, mutton, and seafood, such as shrimp or crab. They are served in rich, hot and spicy curry-like soup. The bumbu spice mixture consist of black pepper, red chili pepper, shallot, garlic, cardamom, caraway, cumin and star anise. The noodle and spices are cooked with bean sprouts, tomato, cabbage and celery. Mie Aceh usually uses thick yellow noodles, in similar size to Japanese udon noodle and Italian spaghetti pasta. To ensure its authenticity, most of mie Aceh restaurant's noodles are home made.  History  Mie Aceh demonstrates the cultural history of Acehnese people and foreign influences that formed the Aceh region and its historic role as major port in the region. The curry-based soup was an influence of the neighboring Indian cuisine, while the noodle was Chinese influence. The preference to mutton, goat meat and beef demonstrates their Islamic value that requires the food to be halal. While the preference to seafood suggests Aceh geographic location surrounded by Malacca strait, Andaman Sea and Indian Ocean...
A company is a legal entity representing an association of legal persons with a shared objective, such as generating profit or benefiting society. Depending on the jurisdiction, companies can take on various forms, including voluntary associations, nonprofit organizations, business entities, financial entities, banks, and educational institutions. Companies have evolved to share common legal features, such as a separate legal personality, limited liability, transferable shares, investor ownership, and a managerial hierarchy. The term company may or may not be synonymous with corporation, partnership, firm, or society. Companies are governed by company law, also referred to as corporate law in many regions. Incorporated companies are created through state registration, whereas unincorporated companies are not. When a company closes, it may undergo liquidation to settle its affairs and terminate its legal obligations. Additionally, companies may associate to form corporate groups, which are collections of parent and subsidiary corporations.  History  English law recognised long ago that a corporation would have separate legal personality, also known as corporate personality or juridical...
The common law is the system of judge-made law that originates in the King's courts of medieval England and which has since been received to the former colonies of the British Empire. During the 12th century, Henry II established a system of travelling judges, who decided on cases and enforced a set of laws common to all England. Over time, the precedent of the judges's decisions evolved into a sophisticated system of common law, which constituted the main form of lawmaking in England for hundreds of years. Today, the term 'common law' refers to both the historically-English legal system that recognises the ability of judges to create rules binding on future courts as well as the body of laws that emerges from such systems. Compared to the civil law tradition of much of Continental Europe, the common law tradition has markedly less, though still significant, influence from Roman law, and has less tendency to be codified, leaving common law judges broader discretion in statutory interpretation and performing a quasi-legislative function in adjudication. Nonetheless, some countries, such as South Africa and Scotland, have mixed jurisdictions that incorporate both common law and civil...
De facto and de jure are contrasting concepts, used particularly within law and governance. De facto practices are those which exist in reality or effect, without explicit recognition by laws or other formal norms de jure practices are recognized by laws or other formal norms, regardless of whether they exist in reality or effect. For example, a de facto government holds power without legal recognition, while a de jure government may have legal authority but lack power.  Jurisprudence  In jurisprudence, a de facto law is a law or regulation that is followed but is not specifically enumerated by a law. By definition, de facto 'contrasts' de jure which means as defined by law or as a matter of law. For example, if a particular law exists in one jurisdiction, but is followed in another where it has no legal effect , then the law could be considered a de facto regulation a de facto regulation is not an officially prescribed legal classification for a type of law in a particular jurisdiction, rather, it is a concept about law. A de facto regulation may be followed...
The law of triviality is C. Northcote Parkinson's 1957 argument that people within an organization commonly give disproportionate weight to trivial issues. Parkinson provides the example of a fictional committee whose job was to approve the plans for a nuclear power plant spending the majority of its time on discussions about relatively minor but easy-to-grasp issues, such as what materials to use for the staff bicycle shed, while neglecting the proposed design of the plant itself, which is far more important and a far more difficult and complex task. The law has been applied to software development and other activities. The terms bicycle-shed effect, bike-shed effect, and bike-shedding were coined based on Parkinson's example it was popularized in the Berkeley Software Distribution community by the Danish software developer Poul-Henning Kamp in 1999 and, due to that, has since become popular within the field of software development generally.  Argument  The concept was first presented as a corollary of his broader Parkinson's law spoof of management. He dramatizes this law of triviality with the example of a committee's deliberations on an atomic reactor, contrasting it to...
In many areas of science, Bragg's law - also known as Wulff-Bragg's condition or Laue-Bragg interference - is a special case of Laue diffraction that gives the angles for coherent scattering of waves from a large crystal lattice. It describes how the superposition of wave fronts scattered by lattice planes leads to a strict relation between the wavelength and scattering angle. This law was initially formulated for -rays, but it also applies to all types of matter waves including neutron and electron waves if there are a large number of atoms, as well as to visible light with artificial periodic microscale lattices.  History  Bragg diffraction also referred to as the Bragg formulation of -ray diffraction was first proposed by Lawrence Bragg and his father, William Henry Bragg, in 1913 after their discovery that crystalline solids produced surprising patterns of reflected -rays in contrast to those produced with, for instance, a liquid. They found that these crystals, at certain specific wavelengths and incident angles, produced intense peaks of reflected radiation. Lawrence Bragg explained this result by modeling the crystal as a set of discrete parallel planes separated...
Law, Law  Potter was an architecture firm in Madison, Wisconsin Potter Lawson, Inc. is its modern-day successor. Some of its buildings are listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places for their architecture. The firm was Madison's largest and arguably most important architectural firm in the 1920s and 1930s. The founding partners were brothers James R. Law III and Edward J. Law , who were both born in Madison and graduates of the University of Pennsylvania's School of Architecture. Ellis J. Potter joined them in 1926. Paul E. Nystrom joined as a draftsman and was an architect in the firm by 1931, and the firm eventually became Law, Law, Potter,  Nystrom. James R. Law was born in Madison. He worked in the architectural office of Louis Claude and Edward Starck in 1901, and later studied at the School of Architecture of the University of Pennsylvania, and graduated in 1909. Then back in Madison, he worked for architect Arthur Peabody before founding his own firm in 1914.  Works Include  Ray S. and Theo P. Owen summer cottage, 5805 Winnequah Rd, Monona NRHP-listed Gay Building 14-16 N...
In physics, Hooke's law is an empirical law which states that the force needed to extend or compress a spring by some distance scales linearly with respect to that distance-that is, Fs  kx, where k is a constant factor characteristic of the spring , and x is small compared to the total possible deformation of the spring. The law is named after 17th-century British physicist Robert Hooke. He first stated the law in 1676 as a Latin anagram. He published the solution of his anagram in 1678 as: ut tensio, sic vis as the extension, so the force or the extension is proportional to the force. Hooke states in the 1678 work that he was aware of the law since 1660. It is the fundamental principle behind the spring scale, the manometer, the galvanometer, and the balance wheel of the mechanical clock. The equation holds in many situations where an elastic body is deformed. An elastic body or material for which this equation can be assumed is said to be linear-elastic or Hookean. Hooke's law is a first-order linear approximation to the real response of springs and other elastic bodies to applied forces. It fails once the forces exceed some limit, since no material...
Paschen's law is an equation that gives the breakdown voltage- the voltage necessary to start a discharge or electric arc -between two electrodes in a gas as a function of pressure and gap length. It is named after Friedrich Paschen who discovered it empirically in 1889. Paschen studied the breakdown voltage of various gases between parallel metal plates as the gas pressure and gap distance were varied: With a constant gap length, the voltage necessary to arc across the gap decreased as the pressure was reduced and then increased gradually, exceeding its original value. With a constant pressure, the voltage needed to cause an arc reduced as the gap size was reduced but only to a point. As the gap was reduced further, the voltage required to cause an arc began to rise and again exceeded its original value. For a given gas, the voltage is a function only of the product of the pressure and gap length. The curve he found of voltage versus the pressure-gap length product is called Paschen's curve. He found an equation that fit these curves, which is now called Paschen's law. At higher pressures and gap lengths, the breakdown voltage is approximately proportional to the product...
Grimm's law, also known as the First Germanic Consonant Shift or First Germanic Sound Shift, is a set of sound laws describing the Proto-Indo-European stop consonants as they developed in Proto-Germanic in the first millennium BCE, first discovered by Rasmus Rask but systematically put forward by Jacob Grimm. It establishes a set of regular correspondences between early Germanic stops and fricatives and stop consonants of certain other Indo-European languages.  History  With the formulation of Grimm's Law, scholars for the first time recognized sound change as systematic rather than accidental, laying the methodological foundations of historical phonology within historical linguistics. Friedrich von Schlegel first noted the correspondence between Latin p and Germanic f in 1806. In 1818, Rasmus Rask extended the correspondences to other Indo-European languages, such as Sanskrit and Greek, and to the full range of consonants involved. In 1822, Jacob Grimm put forth the rule in his book Deutsche Grammatik and extended it to include standard German. He noticed that many words had consonants different from what his law predicted. These exceptions defied linguists for several decades...
Verner's law describes a historical sound change in the Proto-Germanic language whereby consonants that would have otherwise been the voiceless fricatives f, , s, h, h, when present following an unstressed syllable, evolved into the voiced fricatives , , z, , . The law was formulated by Karl Verner, and first published in 1877.  Problem  A seminal insight into how the Germanic languages diverged from their Indo-European ancestor had been established in the early nineteenth century, and had been formulated as Grimm's law. Amongst other things, Grimm's law described how the Proto-Indo-European voiceless stops p, t, k, and k regularly changed into Proto-Germanic f ,  , h , and h . However, there appeared to be a large set of words in which the agreement of Latin, Greek, Sanskrit, Baltic, Slavic etc. guaranteed Proto-Indo-European p, t or k, and yet the Germanic reflex was not the expected, unvoiced fricatives f, , h, h but rather their voiced counterparts , , , . A similar problem obtained with Proto-Indo-European s, which sometimes appeared...
Hanlon's razor is an adage or rule of thumb that states, Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity. It is a philosophical razor that promotes a way of eliminating unlikely explanations for human behavior, purportedly named after the American writer Robert J. Hanlon, who submitted the statement to Murphy's Law Book Two: More Reasons Why Things Go Wrong! .  Origin  In a compilation of various jokes related to Murphy's law published in Arthur Bloch's Murphy's Law Book Two: More Reasons Why Things Go Wrong! , the adage was titled Hanlon's razor, without any indication of who Hanlon might be. A statement similar to Hanlon's razor appears in Robert A. Heinlein's 1941 novella Logic of Empire. The character Doc in the story describes the devil theory fallacy, explaining, You have attributed conditions to villainy that simply result from stupidity. Hanlon's razor became well known after its inclusion in the Jargon File, a glossary of computer programmer slang, in 1990. Later that year, the Jargon File editors declared its origin unknown and wrote that there was a similar epigram by William James. However, this was considered misleading...
The Beer-Lambert law is used to determine the concentration of substances in a solution. It describes how the amount of light that a solution absorbs is directly proportional to the solution's concentration. This relationship is commonly expressed as A   c l displaystyle Avarepsilon cl where A is the absorbance  is the absorption coefficient c is the concentration of the absorbing substance l is the path length It is named after August Beer and Johann Heinrich Lambert. Forms of the law date back to the mid-eighteenth century, but it only took its modern form during the early twentieth.  History  The first work towards the law began with astronomical observations Pierre Bouguer performed in the early eighteenth century and published in 1729. Bouguer needed to compensate for the refraction of light by the earth's atmosphere, and found it necessary to measure the local height of the atmosphere. The latter, he sought to obtain through variations in the observed intensity of known stars. When calibrating this effect, Bouguer discovered that light intensity had an exponential...
Brandolini's law is an Internet adage coined in 2013 by Italian programmer Alberto Brandolini. It contrasts the considerable effort of debunking misinformation with the relative ease of creating it in the first place. The adage states: The amount of energy needed to refute bullshit is an order of magnitude bigger than that needed to produce it. The challenge of refuting bullshit does not come just from its time-consuming nature, but also from the challenge of defying and confronting one's community.  Origins  The adage was publicly formulated in January 2013 by Alberto Brandolini, an Italian programmer. Brandolini stated that he was inspired by reading Daniel Kahneman's Thinking, Fast and Slow, right before watching an Italian political talk show involving former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and journalist Marco Travaglio.  Examples  The persistent false claim that vaccines cause autism is sometimes cited as an example of Brandolini's law. In 1998, British anti-vaccine activist Andrew Wakefield wrote a fraudulent research paper which claimed to find a relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism. The article was retracted, and Wakefield...
The M72 LAW light anti-tank weapon, also referred to as the light anti-armor weapon or LAW as well as LAWS: light anti-armor weapons system is a man-portable 66 mm disposable unguided anti-tank weapon. In early 1963, the M72 LAW was adopted by the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps as their primary individual infantry anti-tank weapon, replacing the M31 HEAT rifle grenade and the M20A1 Super Bazooka in the U.S. Army. It was subsequently adopted by the U.S. Air Force to serve in an anti-emplacement and anti-armor role in airbase defense. In the early 1980s, the M72 was slated to be replaced by the FGR-17 Viper. However, the Viper program was canceled by Congress and the M136 AT4 was adopted instead. At that time, its nearest equivalents were the Swedish Pskott m68 and the French SARPAC.  Background  The increased importance of tanks and other armored vehicles in World War II caused a need for portable infantry weapons to deal with them. The first to be used were Molotov cocktails, flamethrowers, satchel charges, jury-rigged landmines, and specially designed magnetic hollow charges. All of these had to be used within a few meters of the...
Civil law may refer to: Civil law , the part of law that concerns private citizens and legal persons Civil law , or continental law, a legal system originating in continental Europe and based on Roman law Private law, the branch of law in a civil law legal system that concerns relations among private individuals  See also  Civil code Civil Ius civile, Latin for civil law Common law Criminal law
In fluid dynamics, Stokes's law gives the frictional force - also called drag force - exerted on spherical objects moving at very small Reynolds numbers in a viscous fluid. It was derived by George Gabriel Stokes in 1851 by solving the Stokes flow limit for small Reynolds numbers of the Navier-Stokes equations.  Statement of the law  The force of viscosity on a small sphere moving through a viscous fluid is given by: F  d   6   R v  displaystyle vec Frm d-6pi mu Rvec v where : F  d displaystyle vec Frm d is the frictional force - known as Stokes...
Focker-in-Law is an upcoming American comedy film written for the screen and directed by John Hamburg from a story by Hamburg, Ilana Glazer, and Austen Earl. It is the fourth installment in the Fockers film series and the sequel to Little Fockers . Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, Blythe Danner, and Teri Polo reprise their roles from the previous films, with Ariana Grande joining the cast. The film is scheduled to be released on November 25, 2026, by Universal Pictures in the United States and Canada, and Paramount Pictures in all other countries.  Cast  Robert De Niro as Jack Byrnes, a retired CIA agent and a Vietnam War veteran who is Greg's father-in-law, Pam's father, and Henry and Samantha's maternal grandfather. Ben Stiller as Gaylord Greg Focker, a nurse, Pam's husband and Henry and Samantha's father. Ariana Grande as Olivia Jones, a life coach and former FBI hostage negotiator, Henry's girlfriend and potential bride-to-be. Owen Wilson as Kevin Rawley, Pam's ex-fianc and a wealthy stock investorcarpenter. Blythe Danner as Dina Byrnes, Jack's wife, Pam's mother, and Henry and Samantha's maternal grandmother. Teri Polo as Pam Byrnes Focker, Greg's wife and...
L.A. Law is an American legal drama television series created by Steven Bochco and Terry Louise Fisher for NBC. It ran for eight seasons and 172 episodes from September 15, 1986, to May 19, 1994. The series centers on the partners, associates and staff of a Los Angeles law firm. The show contains many of Bochco's trademark features, including an ensemble cast, large number of parallel story lines, social drama, and off-the-wall humor. It reflects the social and cultural conflicts that were occurring when the show was produced in the 1980s and early 1990s, and many of the cases featured on the show dealt with hot-button issues such as capital punishment, abortion, racism, homophobia, sexual harassment, HIVAIDS, and domestic violence. The series often also reflects social tensions between the wealthy senior lawyer protagonists and their less well-paid junior staff. In addition to its main cast, L.A. Law was also well known for featuring then-relatively unknown actors and actresses in guest starring roles, who went on to greater success in film and television, including Don Cheadle, Jeffrey Tambor, Kathy Bates, David Schwimmer, Shelley Hack, Jay O. Sanders, James Avery, Gates McFadden...
Snell's law also known as the Snell-Descartes law, and the law of refraction is a formula used to describe the relationship between the angles of incidence and refraction, when referring to light or other waves passing through a boundary between two different isotropic media, such as water, glass, or air. In optics, the law is used in ray tracing to compute the angles of transmission or refraction, and in experimental optics to find the refractive index of a material. The law is also satisfied in meta-materials, which allow light to be bent backward at a negative angle of refraction with a negative refractive index. The law states that, for a given pair of media, the ratio of the sines of angle of incidence   1  displaystyle left and angle of refraction   2  displaystyle left is equal to the refractive index of the second medium with regard...
Pascal's law also Pascal's principle or the principle of transmission of fluid-pressure is a principle in fluid mechanics that states that a pressure change at any point in a confined incompressible fluid is transmitted throughout the fluid such that the same change occurs everywhere. The law was established by French mathematician Blaise Pascal in 1653 and published in 1663.  Definition  Pascal's principle is defined as: A change in pressure at any point in an enclosed incompressible fluid at rest is transmitted equally and undiminished to all points in all directions throughout the fluid, and the force due to the pressure acts at right angles to the enclosing walls.  Fluid column with gravity  For a fluid column in a uniform gravity , this principle can be stated mathematically as:  p   g   h displaystyle Delta prho gcdot Delta h, where The intuitive explanation of this formula is that the change in pressure between two elevations is due to the weight of the fluid between the elevations. Note that the variation with height...
In computer architecture, Amdahl's law is a formula limiting the speedup of a task as resources are added to the system executing that task. The law can be stated as: the overall performance improvement gained by optimizing a single part of a system is limited by the fraction of time that the improved part is actually used. It is named after computer scientist Gene Amdahl, and was presented at the American Federation of Information Processing Societies Spring Joint Computer Conference in 1967. Amdahl's law is often used in parallel computing to predict the theoretical speedup when using multiple processors.  Definition  In the context of Amdahl's law, speedup can be defined as: Speedup  Performance for the entire task when enhancements are applied Performance for the same task without those enhancements displaystyle textSpeedupfrac textPerformance for the entire task when enhancements are appliedtextPerformance for the same task without those enhancements or...
Coulomb's inverse-square law, or simply Coulomb's law, is a scientific law of physics that describes the amount of force between two electrically charged particles at rest. This electric force is conventionally called the electrostatic force or Coulomb force. Although the law was known earlier, it was first published in 1785 by French physicist Charles-Augustin de Coulomb. Coulomb's law was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism and may even be its starting point, as it allowed meaningful discussions of the amount of electric charge in a particle. The law states that the magnitude, or absolute value, of the attractive or repulsive electrostatic force between two point charges is directly proportional to the product of the magnitudes of their charges and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them. Coulomb discovered that bodies with like electrical charges repel: It follows therefore from these three tests, that the repulsive force that the two balls - electrified with the same kind of electricity - exert on each other, follows the inverse proportion of the square of the distance. Coulomb also showed that oppositely charged...
Campbell's law is an adage developed by American psychologist and social scientist Donald T. Campbell, who often wrote about research methodology. The adage states: The more any quantitative social indicator is used for social decision-making, the more subject it will be to corruption pressures and the more apt it will be to distort and corrupt the social processes it is intended to monitor.  Applications  Campbell's law is related to the cobra effect, which is the sometimes unintended negative effect of public policy and other government interventions in economics, commerce, and healthcare.  Education  In 1976, Campbell wrote: Achievement tests may well be valuable indicators of general school achievement under conditions of normal teaching aimed at general competence. But when test scores become the goal of the teaching process, they both lose their value as indicators of educational status and distort the educational process in undesirable ways. Similar biases of course surround the use of objective tests in courses or as entrance examinations. The social science principle of Campbell's law is used to point out the negative consequences of high-stakes testing in U.S...
Roman law is the legal system of ancient Rome, including the legal developments spanning over a thousand years of jurisprudence, from the Twelve Tables , to the Corpus Juris Civilis ordered by Eastern Roman emperor Justinian I. Roman law also denoted the legal system applied in most of Western Europe until the end of the 18th century. In Germany, Roman law practice remained in place longer under the Holy Roman Empire . Roman law thus served as a basis for legal practice throughout Western continental Europe, as well as in most former colonies of these European nations, including Latin America, and also in Ethiopia. English and Anglo-American common law were influenced also by Roman law, notably in their Latinate legal glossary. Eastern Europe was also influenced by the jurisprudence of the Corpus Juris Civilis, especially in countries such as medieval Romania, which created a new legal system comprising a mixture of Roman and local law. After the dissolution of the Western Roman Empire, the Roman law remained in effect in the Byzantine Empire. From the 7th century onward, the legal language in the East was Greek, with Eastern European law continuing to...
The First Law is a fantasy series written by British author Joe Abercrombie. The First Law is the title of the original trilogy in the series, but is also used to refer to the series as a whole. The full series consists of a trilogy, three stand-alone novels, short stories, and a second trilogy, titled The Age of Madness, of which the third book was published in September 2021. The original trilogy is published by Gollancz in the UK and Pyr in the United States. The stand-alone novels remain with Gollancz in the UK but were published by Orbit Books in the United States, with Orbit also releasing later editions of the original trilogy. Gollancz and Orbit also released The Age of Madness trilogy in the UK and the US, respectively. As of 2023, a film adaptation of Best Served Cold from Skydance Media is in pre-production, with Tim Miller attached to direct. Abercrombie wrote the screenplay and Rebecca Ferguson is set to star as Monza Murcatto.  Published works  Short stories Abercrombie's short fiction works were collected in Sharp Ends: Stories from the World of the First Law and The Great Change . Tough Times All Over won a Locus...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 676 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In machine learning, a hyperparameter is a parameter that can be set in order to define any configurable part of a model's learning process. Hyperparameters can be classified as either model hyperparameters such as the topology and size of a neural network or algorithm hyperparameters such as the learning rate and the batch size of an optimizer. These are named hyperparameters in contrast to parameters, which are characteristics that the model learns from the data. Hyperparameters are not required by every model or algorithm. Some simple algorithms such as ordinary least squares regression require none. However, the LASSO algorithm, for example, adds a regularization hyperparameter to ordinary least squares which must be set before training. Even models and algorithms without a strict requirement to define hyperparameters may not produce meaningful results if these are not carefully chosen. However, optimal values for hyperparameters are not always easy to predict. Some hyperparameters may have no meaningful effect, or one important variable may be conditional upon the value of another. Often a separate process of hyperparameter tuning is needed to find a suitable combination for...
Federated learning is a machine learning technique in a setting where multiple entities collaboratively train a model while keeping their data decentralized, rather than centrally stored. A defining characteristic of federated learning is data heterogeneity. Because client data is decentralized, data samples held by each client may not be independently and identically distributed. Federated learning is generally concerned with and motivated by issues such as data privacy, data minimization, and data access rights. Its applications involve a variety of research areas including defence, telecommunications, the Internet of things, and pharmaceuticals.  Definition  Federated learning aims at training a machine learning algorithm, for instance deep neural networks, on multiple local datasets contained in local nodes without explicitly exchanging data samples. The general principle consists in training local models on local data samples and exchanging parameters e.g. the weights and biases of a deep neural network between these local nodes at some frequency to generate a global model shared by all nodes. The main difference...
ECML PKDD, the European Conference on Machine Learning Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases, is one of the leading academic conferences on machine learning and knowledge discovery, held in Europe every year.  History  ECML PKDD is a merger of two European conferences, European Conference on Machine Learning and European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases . ECML and PKDD have been co-located since 2001 however, both ECML and PKDD retained their own identity until 2007. For example, the 2007 conference was known as the 18th European Conference on Machine Learning and the 11th European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases , or in brief, ECMLPKDD 2007, and both ECML and PKDD had their own conference proceedings. In 2008 the conferences were merged into one conference, and the division into traditional ECML topics and traditional PKDD topics was removed. The history of ECML dates back to 1986, when the European Working Session on Learning was first held. In 1993 the name of the conference was changed to European Conference on Machine Learning. PKDD was first...
Industrial artificial intelligence, or industrial AI, refers to the application of artificial intelligence to industrial business processes. Unlike general artificial intelligence which is a frontier research discipline to build computerized systems that perform tasks requiring human intelligence, industrial AI is more concerned with the application of such technologies to address industrial pain-points for customer value creation, productivity improvement, cost reduction, site optimization, predictive analysis and insight discovery. Artificial intelligence and machine learning have become key enablers to leverage data in production in recent years due to a number of different factors: More affordable sensors and the automated process of data acquisition More powerful computation capability of computers to perform more complex tasks at a faster speed with lower cost Faster connectivity infrastructure and more accessible cloud services for data management and computing power outsourcing.  Categories  Possible applications of industrial AI and machine learning in the production domain can be divided into seven application areas: Market and trend analysis Machinery and equipment...
In machine learning, the term tensor informally refers to two different concepts: a way of organizing data and a multilinear transformation. Data may be organized in a multidimensional array , informally referred to as a data tensor however, in the strict mathematical sense, a tensor is a multilinear mapping over a set of domain vector spaces to a range vector space. Observations, such as images, movies, volumes, sounds, and relationships among words and concepts, stored in an M-way array , may be analyzed either by artificial neural networks or tensor methods. Tensor decomposition factors data tensors into smaller tensors. Operations on data tensors can be expressed in terms of matrix multiplication and the Kronecker product. The computation of gradients, a crucial aspect of backpropagation, can be performed using software libraries such as PyTorch and TensorFlow. Computations are often performed on graphics processing units using CUDA, and on dedicated hardware such as Google's Tensor Processing Unit or Nvidia's Tensor core. These developments have greatly accelerated neural network architectures, and increased the size and...
These datasets are used in machine learning research and have been cited in peer-reviewed academic journals. Datasets are an integral part of the field of machine learning. Major advances in this field can result from advances in learning algorithms , computer hardware, and, less intuitively, the availability of high-quality training datasets. High-quality labeled training datasets for supervised and semi-supervised machine-learning algorithms are usually difficult and expensive to produce because of the large amount of time needed to label the data. Although they do not need to be labeled, high-quality unlabeled datasets for unsupervised learning can also be difficult and costly to produce. Many organizations, including governments, publish and share their datasets, often using common metadata formats . The datasets are classified, based on the licenses, into two groups: open data and non-open data. The datasets from various governmental-bodies are presented in List of open government data sites. The datasets are ported on open data portals. They are made available for searching, depositing and accessing through interfaces like Open API...
In machine learning, the perceptron is an algorithm for supervised learning of binary classifiers. A binary classifier is a function that can decide whether or not an input, represented by a vector of numbers, belongs to some specific class. It is a type of linear classifier, i.e. a classification algorithm that makes its predictions based on a linear predictor function combining a set of weights with the feature vector.  History  The artificial neuron and artificial neural network were invented in 1943 by Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts in their seminal paper A Logical Calculus of the Ideas Immanent in Nervous Activity. In 1957, Frank Rosenblatt was at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory. He simulated the perceptron on an IBM 704. Being more interested in hardware implementations, he obtained funding by the Information Systems Branch of the United States Office of Naval Research and the Rome Air Development Center, to build a custom-made analog computer, the Mark I Perceptron. Rosenblatt's team assembled and tested it at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory in Buffalo, NY, USA between June 1959 and December 14, 1959. Its first public demonstration took place on 23...
A neural network is a group of interconnected units called neurons that send signals to one another. Neurons can be either biological cells or mathematical models. While individual neurons are simple, many of them together in a network can perform complex tasks. There are two main types of neural networks. In neuroscience, a biological neural network is a physical structure found in brains and complex nervous systems - a population of nerve cells connected by synapses. In machine learning, an artificial neural network is a mathematical model used to approximate nonlinear functions. Artificial neural networks are used to solve artificial intelligence problems. In neuroscience, behavior and cognition arise from interactions between distributed brain regions. In computer science, artificial neural networks power many modern AI systems, but require large datasets and substantial computing power. Additionally, their internal representations are difficult to interpret.  In biology  In the context of biology, a neural network is a population of biological neurons chemically connected to each other by synapses. A given neuron can be connected to hundreds of thousands of synapses. Each...
Byron Boots is an American professor of machine learning and robotics. He is the Amazon Professor of Machine Learning at the University of Washington . Boots is also the co-founder and chief executive officer of Overland AI, a technology startup.  Career  Boots received his Ph.D. from the Machine Learning Department at School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University under the advisory of Geoffrey J. Gordon. He later became an assistant professor at Georgia Institute of Technology. He is currently the Amazon Professor of Machine Learning at the University of Washington. He was also a principal research scientist in the Seattle Robotics Lab at NVIDIA Research and co-chair of the Technical Committee on Robot Learning for the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society. In 2022, Boots co-founded the technology startup Overland AI to develop off-road autonomous vehicles. In 2024, the U.S. Army and the Defense Innovation Unit jointly awarded the startup a 18.6 million contract to develop autonomy software for the Army's Robotic Combat Vehicle program. Boots has received several awards for his work on robotics, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. They include...
In machine learning, diffusion models, also known as diffusion-based generative models or score-based generative models, are a class of latent variable generative models. A diffusion model consists of two major components: the forward diffusion process, and the reverse sampling process. The goal of diffusion models is to learn a diffusion process for a given dataset, such that the process can generate new elements that are distributed similarly as the original dataset. A diffusion model models data as generated by a diffusion process, whereby a new datum performs a random walk with drift through the space of all possible data. A trained diffusion model can be sampled in many ways, with different efficiency and quality. There are various equivalent formalisms, including Markov chains, denoising diffusion probabilistic models, noise conditioned score networks, and stochastic differential equations. They are typically trained using variational inference. The model responsible for denoising is typically called its backbone. The backbone may be of any kind, but they are typically U-nets or transformers. As of 2024, diffusion models are mainly used for computer vision tasks, including image...
A generative pre-trained transformer is a type of large language model that is widely used in generative artificial intelligence chatbots. GPTs are based on a deep learning architecture called the transformer. They are pre-trained on large datasets of unlabeled content, and able to generate novel content. OpenAI was the first to apply generative pre-training to the transformer architecture, introducing the GPT-1 model in 2018. The chatbot ChatGPT, released in late 2022 , was followed by many competitor chatbots using their own generative pre-trained transformers to generate text, such as Gemini, DeepSeek and Claude. GPTs are primarily used to generate text, but can be trained to generate other kinds of data. Multimodal GPTs can process or generate multiple types of data, such as text, images and audio. To improve performance on complex tasks, reasoning GPTs allocate more computation time analyzing the problem before generating an output.  Background  During the 2010s, improved machine learning algorithms, more powerful computers, and an increase in the amount of digitized material allowed for an AI boom. Separately, the concept of generative pre-training...
Danbooru is an English-language imageboard and image hosting website focused primarily on anime-style illustrations. It was launched in 2005 by a programmer known as Albert and is frequently described as one of the earliest and most influential booru style sites, using collaborative tags to organize images. The site hosts over 10 million user submitted images , which are labeled with user-generated tags and content ratings. Danbooru has served as the basis for a large ecosystem of derivative software, related imageboards and machine learning datasets.  History  Danbooru was created in 2005 as an imageboard for sharing and cataloging anime and manga style artwork with more structured metadata tagging system than traditional forums or boards. According to a later retrospective based on the site's Facebook page and early web archives, Danbooru launched on May 25, 2005, and had tens of thousands of images within its first year of operation. The website's name derives from the Japanese word danbru . In March 2007 the site was temporarily taken offline by its administrator, who also released a copy of the database and the site...
In statistics and machine learning, ensemble methods use multiple learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance than could be obtained from any of the constituent learning algorithms alone. Unlike a statistical ensemble in statistical mechanics, which is usually infinite, a machine learning ensemble consists of only a concrete finite set of alternative models, but typically allows for much more flexible structure to exist among those alternatives.  Overview  Supervised learning algorithms search through a hypothesis space to find a suitable hypothesis that will make good predictions with a particular problem. Even if this space contains hypotheses that are very well-suited for a particular problem, it may be very difficult to find a good one. Ensembles combine multiple hypotheses to form one which should be theoretically better. Ensemble learning trains two or more machine learning algorithms on a specific classification or regression task. The algorithms within the ensemble model are generally referred as base models, base learners, or weak learners in literature. These base models can be constructed using a single modelling algorithm, or several different algorithms...
Microsoft Azure, sometimes stylized Azure, and formerly Windows Azure, is the cloud computing platform developed by Microsoft. It offers management, access and development of applications and services to individuals, companies, and governments through its global infrastructure. Microsoft Azure supports multiple programming languages, tools, and frameworks, including Microsoft-specific and third-party software and systems. Azure was first introduced at the Professional Developers Conference in October 2008 under the code name Project Red Dog. It was officially launched as Windows Azure in February 2010 and later renamed to Microsoft Azure on March 25, 2014.  Services  Microsoft Azure uses large-scale virtualization at Microsoft data centers worldwide and offers more than 600 services. Microsoft Azure offers a service level agreement that guarantees 99.9 availability for applications and data hosted on its platform, subject to specific terms and conditions outlined in the SLA documentation.  Computer services  Virtual machines, infrastructure as a service , allowing users to launch general-purpose Microsoft Windows and Linux virtual machines, software as a...
The Iemma ministry or First Iemma ministry is the 89th ministry of the Government of New South Wales, and was led by the 40th Premier Morris Iemma. It was the first of two occasions when Iemma was Premier. The 1st Iemma Labor ministry was formed following the shock retirement of Bob Carr as Premier after Carr had the longest continuous service as Premier, from 1995 until 2005. Iemma succeeded Carr after a bitter inter-factional battle against Carl Scully who withdrew from the caucus contest after Iemma received backing from Labor's head office and powerbrokers in the dominant NSW Right of the Labor Party. This ministry covers the period from 3 August 2005 until 2 April 2007, when the outcome of the 2007 state election was determined and Iemma re-elected for a second term.  Composition of ministry  The composition of the ministry was announced by Premier Iemma on 3 August 2005. Hours before the swearing in ceremony senior ministers Andrew Refshauge and Craig Knowles announced their resignations, resulting in a reshuffle. There was a further ministerial reshuffle on 17 February 2006. In October 2006 Carl Scully was sacked from the ministry for misleading parliament. In...
Blanche of Navarre , also known as Blanche of Champagne, was the daughter of Theobald the Troubador, King of Navarre and Count of Champagne, and Agnes of Beaujeu. She was a member of the House of Champagne. By her marriage to John I, Duke of Brittany, she became Duchess consort of Brittany.  Life  Blanche was firstly betrothed to Otto III, Count of Burgundy the marriage contract was signed on 16 January 1236. However, the engagement was broken. Blanche was instead married in 1236 to John I, Duke of Brittany: the main reason he married Blanche was so he could get Navarre, and Theobald did make John heir to the throne. However, John renounced the claim after Margaret of Bourbon bore Theobald two sons.  Marriage and children  Blanche and John had: John II, Duke of Brittany Peter of Brittany , Lord of Hade Alix of Brittany, Dame de Pontarcy Theobald , died young Theobald Eleanor , died young Nicholas , died young Robert , died young Of their eight children, only their eldest three lived to adulthood. In 1270 Blanche founded the Abbey de la Joie near Hennebont...
Ilan Shohat Hebrew:   born 21 September 1974 is an Israeli politician, and the mayor of Safed in the Israeli Galilee since 2008. In 2010, he was the youngest mayor in Israel. In 2015, he was elected to the Knesset, but chose not to take his seat days before he was to be sworn in. He lost his bid for re-election in 2018.  Biography  Ilan Shohat was born in Safed to a Tunisian-Jewish family. He was named after his aunt Ilana Neeman, who was murdered in the Maalot massacre - the May 1974 terrorist massacre of 22 children and three adults in a Ma'a lot school by armed members of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine. He is secular.  Mayor of Safed  Shohat was first elected Mayor of Safed, a city in the Israeli Galilee, in 2008. He was a representative of an independent list identified with Kadima and was supported by Yisrael Beiteinu and the Labor Party. In 2009, he visited Bowling Green, Kentucky, asking for help providing transportable bomb shelters to Israel. In 2010 Shohat was Israel's youngest mayor. In 2012, he was investigated on suspicion of taking a bribe during the 2008 elections, but the Northern District Prosecutor's Office decided to close...
Pawe Bukiewicz is a Polish former professional footballer who played as a striker.  Career   Club  In February 2011, he joined Dolcan Zbki. He was released from Dolcan Zbki on 27 June 2011. In July 2011, he joined Olimpia Elblg on a one-year contract.  Honours  Grnik czna III liga, gr. IV: 2007-08  References   External links  Pawe Bukiewicz at 90minut.pl
Les Orangeries of Bierbais is located in Hvillers, a section of the municipality of Mont-Saint-Guibert, located in the Wallonia in the province of Walloon Brabant in Belgium. The Orangeries of Bierbais were part, until the end of the 1980s, of the park of the Chteau de Bierbais. This part of the park, covering an area of 2.5 hectares, in the 19th century housed not only a collection of remarkable fruit and ornamental trees, but also monumental heated greenhouses of international reputation, the greenhouses of Bierbais, in the style of English gardens designed by the landscape architect Charles-Henri Petersen. Petersen lived at Bierbais until his death in 1859. Since 2019, the two remaining orangeries have been transformed into a third place hosting residences for artists and researchers as well as cultural activities, periodically open to the public.  History   The time of gardening in the 19th century  About forty years after Immanuel Kant introduced the art of gardens among the fine arts , Baron De Man de Lennick, at the very moment when a wave of effervescence around this art swept through the Europe, notably France and England, has succeeded in satisfying, according...
Marty St. James is a British performance artist and professor of fine art in the School Art and Design at the University of Hertfordshire. He is perhaps best known for his portrait of Olympic swimmer Duncan Goodhew: The Swimmer - commissioned in 1990 by the National Portrait Gallery - and recently migrated to new digital formats. He studied at the Bournville College of Art. HTV Television recorded and presented his graduation piece 'Mr and Mrs' with his then wife Mary, the piece and his early life also feature in The Guardian article 'Mr and Mrs Avant Garde: art's real-life couples'. The Swimmer is a seminal moment in video. Its use of time and fragmentation employing the analogue methodologies and equipment, which were the only ones available in 1990, and the site sensitive sculptural qualities of its installation predicting contemporary developments in video installation. In a process the artist describes as 'sculpture in time' his multi-channel video installations capture his subjects in a 'sliver of time' - moving yet frozen for all eternity, self-consciously entrapped by the technological paraphernalia, which a video work requires to deliver its message. St...
Axel Hellstrom was a German muscle reader, mentalist and stage magician. He redefined the art of muscle reading to such an extent that this technique, also known as contact mind reading and Cumberlandism after a 19th-century practitioner named Stuart Cumberland, is now best known by the name Hellstromism.  Biography  Hellstrom was born Axel Vogt. He lived in Germany and fought in World War I where he watched a man perform an act of muscle reading. At the time, Germany did not allow mind reading unless it had a plausible explanation. The only type of mind reading allowed was muscle reading, and so Axel took advantage of it. He studied it carefully and taught himself everything. He entertained his fellow soldiers and became quite good at this old technique. After the war, he and his wife moved to America where he knew his art form would be accepted by many - especially magic audiences. Soon he was performing for professional magic audiences and amazed many people. After a short while, mind readers, and even fellow Hellstromists were questioning his ability. During his live performances, his manager spoke for him because his English vocabulary...
Apache Rocks the Bottom! is a 2005 single by German techno group Scooter. It was released as the second and last single from the album Who's Got the Last Laugh Now? on 30 December 2005. The song is a mix of two songs from the album: Apache and Rock Bottom.  Track listing  CD single Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 3:45 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:47 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:57 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:30 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 0:30 Countdown - 1:41 12 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:47 Countdown - 1:41 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:57 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:30 Download Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 3:45 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:47 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:57 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 5:30 Countdown - 1:41 Digidance, Netherlands Rock Bottom - 3:25 Apache Rocks the Bottom! - 3:45 Rock Bottom - 3:40 Countdown - 1:41 Rock Bottom - 3:40  Samples  Apache Rocks the Bottom! samples the 1960 instrumental song Apache by The Shadows...
Karim George Chmielinski , known professionally as Casey Chaos, was an American musician, best known as the lead singer of Amen. His music encompassed a number of styles in the punk and metal genres.  Early life  Karim Chmielinski was born in Trenton, New York, on October 9, 1965. When he was seven, his parents separated and Casey moved with his mother to Melbourne, Florida. By age ten, Casey was touring professionally as a skater.  Career   1982-1990: Disorderly Conduct  In 1982, fellow skateboarder Duane Peters played Casey a tape by the band Black Flag. Casey became enough of a fan that he started corresponding with Henry Rollins and his friend Ian MacKaye. After seeing Black Flag for the first time live, Casey's life was forever changed, and he decided to start his own band. He created Casey and the Skate Punx, and recruited bassist Scot Lade, drummer Bill Erwin, and his childhood friend from New York, guitarist Ken Decter . They later changed the band name to Disorderly Conduct. They began writing songs and playing the Florida punk scene. Between his powerful voice and the band's high-energy presence, they became...
Mirza Abdulgadir Vusagi or Abdulgadir Ismayilzada 1865, Sayadli village, Khizi district - 1914, Baku was an Azerbaijani poet and writer. He is the author of the libretto for the operas Shah Ismail and Seyfal mulk, the dramatic creations Yusif and Zuleikha, Ali Khan and Shahzade Ismail. He is the father of Mikayil Mushfig.  Biography and creation  Abdulgadir Ismailzada was born in 1865 in Khizi, in the village of Sayadli. His father, Molla Ismayil, was a famous teacher in Khizi. Abdulgadir received his primary education from his father, and for a deeper study of the Arabic language, he studied from kazi of Guba Akhund Zaki. For some time, he taught at his father's school.In 1902, he moved to Baku, where he continued his teaching activity. For a while he taught to Jafar Jabbarli. In 1905, he entered a two-year pedagogical course on a new method of education, opened by the Nashri-Maarif association. After completing the courses, he began teaching according to the new methodology. In 1908, he received an invitation from the Saadat school in Baku, where he worked for the rest of his life. Mirza Abdulgadir's poems, which he wrote under the pseudonym of Vusagi, were published...
The Ephippigerini are a tribe of bush crickets in the subfamily Bradyporinae, erected by Brunner von Wattenwyl in 1878. Species, including the typical Ephippiger ephippiger are sometimes called saddle-backed bush crickets: they have been recorded from mainland Europe , North Africa and the Horn of Africa.  Genera  The Orthoptera Species File lists: Afrosteropleurus Barat, 2012 Albarracinia Barat, 2012 - monotypic Albarracinia zapaterii Baetica Bolivar, I., 1903 - monotypic Baetica ustulata Baratia Lluci Pomares, 2021 - monotypic Baratia sari Lluci Pomares, 2021 Callicrania Bolvar, 1898 Coracinotus Barat, 2012 Corsteropleurus Barat, 2012 - monotypic Corsteropleurus chopardi Dinarippiger Skejo, Kasalo, Fontana  Tvrtkovi, 2023 - monotypic Dinarippiger discoidalis Ephippiger Berthold, 1827 Ephippigerida Bolivar, 1903 Lluciapomaresius Barat, 2012 Lucasinova Barat, 2012 - monotypic Lucasinova nigromarginata Neocallicrania Pfau, 1996 Parasteropleurus Barat, 2012 Platystolus Bolivar, I., 1878 Praephippigera Bolivar, 1903 Sabaterpia Barat, 2012 Sorapagus Barat, 2012 -...
Capital Airlines was an airline based in the United Kingdom and self-proclaimed Yorkshire International Airlines. It operated a fleet of BAe 146's and Shorts 360's between 1987 and 1990. It was the first airline to be based at Leeds Bradford Airport.  History  Modest beginnings The airline came into being in 1984 as Brown Air Services Ltd., a subsidiary of the Brown Group which specialised in the sales and maintenance of heavy plant equipment. It flew a Cessna 441 Conquest II on services from Leeds Bradford to Oslo, originally flown as a corporate shuttle but then opened up for public bookings. An afternoon service from Leeds Bradford to Frankfurt was later introduced. The Conquest was then replaced with a Grumman Gulfstream 1 turboprop. Scheduled services to Glasgow were introduced on 1 October 1984 with a Short 330 aircraft after the previous operator, Metropolitan Airways, had ceased trading. The 330 was later returned to its leasing company and the scheduled routes to Oslo and Frankfurt were discontinued. The sole Gulfstream was then operated on a regular Leeds-Glasgow-Leeds-Cardiff service, introducing the first direct services from Leeds to Cardiff and a through-flight...
Urban Renewal is an album by the American band Funk, Inc., released in 1995. Two of Funk Inc.'s original bandmembers played on the album.  Critical reception  The Omaha World-Herald thought that the band finds a strong groove but not much more on this James Brown-tinged jazz. AllMusic wrote that the album effectively combines the immediacy of soul and funk with the spontaneity of jazz.  Track listing   References 
Jason Flowers is an American basketball coach who is currently the men's basketball head coach at Los Angeles City College . Prior to LACC, Flowers was the director of player development for the women's basketball team at California Baptist University. Prior to Cal Baptist, he was the head women's basketball coach at Cal State Northridge from 2010 to 2020, where he was a two-time Big West Conference Coach of the Year as well as winning three Big West Conference tournament titles.  Personal life  A former guard at UC Irvine and UCLA, Flowers is married to Tairia Flowers , a former Olympic gold medalist in softball who is currently the head softball coach at Loyola Marymount. They have three children, two daughters and a son.  Head coaching record   References   External links  Jason Flowers on  Cal Baptist Lancers profile Cal State Northridge Matadors profile
Alice Frederica Keppel ne Edmonstone 29 April 1868 - 11 September 1947 was an aristocrat, British society hostess and a long-time mistress of King Edward VII. Keppel grew up at Duntreath Castle, the family seat of the Edmonstone baronets in Scotland. She was the youngest child of Mary Elizabeth, ne Parsons, and Sir William Edmonstone, 4th Baronet. In 1891 she married George Keppel, an army officer, and they had two daughters. Alice Keppel became one of the most prominent society hostesses of the Edwardian era. Her beauty, charm and discretion impressed London society and brought her to the attention of the future King Edward VII in 1898, when he was still Prince of Wales, and was his mistress until his death. Through her younger daughter, Sonia Cubitt, Alice Keppel is the great-grandmother of Queen Camilla, the second wife of Edward VII's great-great-grandson King Charles III.  Early life  Alice Frederica Edmonstone was born on 29 April 1868 in Woolwich Dockyard, Kent, to Mary Elizabeth, ne Parsons , and Sir William Edmonstone, 4th Baronet , who was serving as Superintendent at the Dockyard at the time. Besides his...
Lakeland Christian Academy is a private, non-denominational Christian school located in Winona Lake, Indiana, United States.  Demographics  The demographic breakdown of the 148 students enrolled in 2017-18 was: Black - 1.4 Hispanic - 2.0 Native HawaiianPacific islanders - 2.0 White - 94.6  Affiliations  NCA CASI - North Central Association Commission on Accreditation and School Improvement  See also  List of high schools in Indiana  References   External links  Official website
Jan Gratama , was a Dutch architect.  Biography  He was born in Groningen and was the younger brother of the artist and museum director Gerrit David Gratama. His sister Lina Gratama was a painter He studied at the Polytechnical School of Delft and became an amateur portrait artist like his older brother. He was an artistic advisor to his sister Lina, who also became a portrait artist, and became known for her copies of the works in the Mauritshuis and the Gemeentemuseum Den Haag. In 1908 he established an architecture bureau in Amsterdam, where he worked with Berlage and others in the style of the Amsterdam School. His partners in his architect bureau were Gerrit Versteeg from 1914 and Jan Willem Dinger from 1930, who continued the bureau after Gratama died in 1947.  Works in Amsterdam   References   External links  Media related to Jan Gratama at Wikimedia Commons Jan Gratama in the Netherlands Architecture Institute
Deoxyribonucleic acid is a polymer composed of two polynucleotide chains that coil around each other to form a double helix. The polymer carries genetic instructions for the development, functioning, growth and reproduction of all known organisms and many viruses. DNA and ribonucleic acid are nucleic acids. Alongside proteins, lipids and complex carbohydrates , nucleic acids are one of the four major types of macromolecules that are essential for all known forms of life. The two DNA strands are known as polynucleotides as they are composed of simpler monomeric units called nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of one of four nitrogen-containing nucleobases cytosine , guanine , adenine or thymine , a sugar called deoxyribose, and a phosphate group. The nucleotides are joined to one another in a chain by covalent bonds between the sugar of one nucleotide and the phosphate of the next, resulting in an alternating sugar-phosphate backbone. The nitrogenous bases of the two separate polynucleotide strands are bound together, according to base pairing rules , with hydrogen bonds to...
Infection, Genetics and Evolution, Journal of Molecular Epidemiology and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Diseases is a peer-reviewed scientific journal established in 2001. It is published by Elsevier. The editor-in-chief is Michel Tibayrenc. Topics covered include genetics, population genetics, genomics, gene expression, evolutionary biology, population dynamics, mathematical modeling, and bioinformatics.  Abstracting and indexing  Infection, Genetics and Evolution is abstracted and indexed in: According to the NLM Catalog, the journal has been indexed in MEDLINE and PubMed since volume 1, issue 1 , and is currently indexed for MEDLINE. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 3.2.  References   External links  Official website
Genetic studies have been used to investigate the origins of diverse Jewish ethnic subgroups, and assess shared ancestry between Jewish and non-Jewish populations. The medical genetics of Jews is a subset of this research, that focuses on population-specific diseases and on genetic conditions shared with other ethnic groups. Studies on Jewish populations have been principally conducted using all three types of genealogical DNA tests: autosomal , mitochondrial , and Y-chromosome . Autosomal testing, which looks at the largest sets of genes within peoples' DNA, shows that Jewish populations tend to form genetic isolates - relatively closely related groups in independent communities with most in a community sharing significant ancestry. The Ashkenazi Jews form the largest such group. Mitochondrial and Y-DNA tests look at maternal and paternal ancestry respectively, via two small groups of genes transmitted only via female or male ancestors. Studies on the genetic composition of Ashkenazi, Sephardi, and Mizrahi Jewish populations of the Jewish diaspora show significant amounts of shared Middle Eastern ancestry, as well as admixture from local populations.Jews living...
A genetic disorder is a health problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome. It can be caused by a mutation in a single gene or multiple genes or by a chromosome abnormality. Although polygenic disorders are the most common, the term is mostly used when discussing disorders with a single genetic cause, either in a gene or chromosome. The mutation responsible can occur spontaneously before embryonic development , or it can be inherited from two parents who are carriers of a faulty gene or from a parent with the disorder . When the genetic disorder is inherited from one or both parents, it is also classified as a hereditary disease. Some disorders are caused by a mutation on the  chromosome and have -linked inheritance. Very few disorders are inherited on the Y chromosome or mitochondrial DNA . There are well over 6,000 known genetic disorders, and new genetic disorders are constantly being described in medical literature. More than 600 genetic disorders are treatable. Approximately 1 person in every 50 people is affected by a known single-gene...
Alison Mary Goate is the Jean C. and James W. Crystal Professor and Chair of the Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences and Director of the Loeb Center for Alzheimer's Disease at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. She was previously professor of genetics in psychiatry, professor of genetics, and professor of neurology at Washington University School of Medicine. The Goate Lab studies the genetics and molecular bases of Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and alcoholism.  Education and early career  After receiving her undergraduate degree in biochemistry at the University of Bristol and her graduate training at Oxford University , Goate studied under Professors Theodore Puck, Professor Louis Lim and Dr. John Hardy. She received a Royal Society University Research Fellowship to conduct research at St. Mary's Hospital Medical School in London.  Awards and affiliations  She has received the Potamkin Prize from the American Academy of Neurology , the Zenith Award from the Alzheimer's Association, Senior Investigator Award from the Metropolitan Life Foundation, the St. Louis Academy of Science Innovation Award, Carl and Gerty Cori Faculty Achievement...
American Journal of Medical Genetics is a peer-reviewed medical journal dealing with human genetics published in three separate sections by Wiley-Liss: American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A American Journal of Medical Genetics Part B: Neuropsychiatric Genetics American Journal of Medical Genetics Part C: Seminars in Medical Genetics Until 1996 they were one journal under the name American Journal of Medical Genetics, when they split into Part A and Part B. Part C was established in 1999. Part A of the journal focuses on specific domains within the discipline of medical genetics. Specifically, it is focused on the study of the cause and pathogenesis  delineation including phenotype analyses, natural history, variability, nosology, and newly recognized syndromes and management including genetic counseling, care guidelines, and treatment of human congenital anomalies and genetic disorders. While recognizing the existence of thousands of human genetic conditions, the journal focuses on phenotypically driven analyses of disorders of morphogenesis, metabolism, and neurogenetics, especially intellectual disability and related neurodevelopmental...
The Genetics Society of America is a scholarly membership society of more than 5,500 genetics researchers and educators, established in 1931. The Society was formed from the reorganization of the Joint Genetics Sections of the American Society of Zoologists and the Botanical Society of America. GSA members conduct fundamental and applied research using a wide variety of model organisms to enhance understanding of living systems. Some of the systems of study include Drosophila , Caenorhabditis elegans , yeasts, zebrafish, humans, mice, bacteria, Arabidopsis thaliana , maize , Chlamydomonas , enopus , and other animals, plants, and fungi.  Mission  GSA serves an international community of scientists who use genetics to make new discoveries and improve lives. Its mission is to cultivate an inclusive, diverse research community that engages with the public, communicates the excitement and implications of discovery, and serves as an authoritative source of information. Its activities include: advancing biological research by supporting professional development of scientists communicating advances and fostering...
The Centre for Human Genetics is a human genetics research centre of the Nuffield Department of Medicine at the Medical Sciences Division at the University of Oxford in England. It is funded by the Wellcome Trust among others.  Facilities  resources  The centre is located at the Henry Wellcome Building of Genomic Medicine, which cost 20 million and was officially opened in June 2000 with Anthony Monaco as the director. Within the CHG a number of 'cores' provide services to the researchers:  Oxford Genomics Centre  The Oxford Genomics Centre provides high throughput sequencing services, using Illumina HiSeq4000 2500 and NextSeq500 and MiSeq. They also offer Oxford Nanopore MinION and PromethION sequencing. There are also Array platforms for genotyping, gene expression, and methylation including Illuminia Infinium, Affymetrix and Fluidigm.  Research Computing Core  The Research Computing Core provides access to computer resources including 4120 cores and 4.2 PB of storage.  Transgenics  The Transgenics Core provides access to genetically modified mice and cell lines.  Cellular Imaging  Cellular Imaging Core provides microscopy facilities including fluorescence...
Pharming, a portmanteau of farming and pharmaceutical, refers to the use of genetic engineering to insert genes that code for useful pharmaceuticals into host animals or plants that would otherwise not express those genes, thus creating a genetically modified organism . Pharming is also known as molecular farming, molecular pharming, or biopharming. The products of pharming are recombinant proteins or their metabolic products. Recombinant proteins are most commonly produced using bacteria or yeast in a bioreactor, but pharming offers the advantage to the producer that it does not require expensive infrastructure, and production capacity can be quickly scaled to meet demand, at greatly reduced cost.  History  The first recombinant plant-derived protein was human serum albumin, initially produced in 1990 in transgenic tobacco and potato plants. Open field growing trials of these crops began in the United States in 1992 and have taken place every year since. While the United States Department of Agriculture has approved planting of pharma crops in every state, most testing has taken place in Hawaii, Nebraska, Iowa, and Wisconsin. In the early 2000s, the pharming industry...
Genetics Abstracts is a database produced by CSA Illumina. It includes abstracts from articles from 954 peer-reviewed scientific journals in the field of genetics published since 1982. The database is updated monthly, with approximately 1600 new records added. As of October 2009, it contains over 535,623 records.  References 
The Genetics and Molecular Research Journal is a peer-reviewed open-access scientific journal in the fields of biology and medicine, edited and published monthly in the fields of genetics, molecular biology, proteomics, genomics and evolution. The journal was listed on Beall's list before it was taken down in 2017. A hijacked journal was also setup at geneticsmr.org by the Pulsus Group, unlike the legitimate geneticsmr.com operated by FUNEPC-RP. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.765.  History  The journal was established in 2002 by Francisco A. Moura Duarte and its honorary editor is Pedro Henrique Saldanha.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in:  References   External links  Official website
The European Journal of Human Genetics is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by the Nature Publishing Group on behalf of the European Society of Human Genetics. It covers all aspects of human genetics.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal had a 2024 impact factor of 4.1.  References   External links  Official website
Complementation refers to the capacity of a segment of genetic material to rescue the phenotype of a mutation. It shows that a copy of the gene affected by the mutation is contained within the segment of genetic material and provides an important criterion for deciding which mutations affect which genes. Complementation can be assessed by mating or crossing strains of an organism that each carry mutations through a simple complementation test. When the mutations in question are homozygous and recessive, complementation will ordinarily result in a normal phenotype if the mutations are in different genes . When the mutations are in different genes, each strain's genome supplies the wild-type allele to complement the mutated allele of the other strain's genome. Since the mutations are recessive, the offspring that is heterozygous mutant at each gene will display the wild-type phenotype. When the mutations affect the same gene, neither genome can supply a wild type allele and a mutant phenotype results. Such a simple complementation may sometimes produce offspring with a weaker phenotype than one or...
Humans Homo sapiens, meaning 'thinking man' or 'wise man' are the most abundant and widespread species of primates, characterized by bipedalism, minimal body hair, and large, complex brains enabling the development of advanced technology, culture, and language. Humans are highly social beings and tend to live in complex social structures composed of many cooperating and competing groups, from families and kinship networks to political states. Social interactions between humans have established a wide variety of values, social norms, and rituals, which bolster human society. Curiosity and the human desire to understand and influence the environment have motivated humanity's development of science, philosophy, religion, mythology, and other fields of knowledge. Humans have a large and highly developed prefrontal cortex, the region of the brain associated with higher cognition. They are intelligent beings, capable of episodic memory, flexible facial expressions, self-awareness and a theory of mind. The human mind is capable of introspection , private thought, imagination, volition, and forming views on existence. Humans can also mentally travel through time chronesthesia...
Human Genetics is a peer-reviewed medical journal covering all aspects of human genetics, including legal and social issues. It was established in 1964 by Arno Motulsky and Friedrich Vogel as the German-language Humangenetik, obtaining its current title in 1976. It is published by Springer ScienceBusiness Media. Its editors-in-chief are David N. Cooper and Thomas J. Hudson . According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 5.3.  Ethics scandal  The journal published findings exploring the DNA of physical appearance traits of Uighur men from Tumxuk in 2019. One of the authors of the paper on DNA phenotyping said he had been unaware of the origins of the DNA samples. Springer Nature was reported to want to strengthen its ethics guidelines regarding vulnerable groups of people per a New York Times report.  References   External links  Official website
Conservation Genetics is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering all areas of conservation genetics. It was originally established in 2000 by Kluwer Academic Publishers, and is currently published by Springer ScienceBusiness Media. The editor-in-chief is A. Rus Hoelzel . According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 2.2  See also  Conservation Genetics Resources  References   External links  Official website
Memory is the faculty of the mind by which data or information is encoded, stored, and retrieved when needed. It is the retention of information over time for the purpose of influencing future action. If past events could not be remembered, it would be impossible for language, relationships, or personal identity to develop. Memory loss is usually described as forgetfulness or a disorder such as amnesia. Memory is often understood as an information processing system with explicit and implicit functioning that is made up of a sensory processor, short-term memory, and long-term memory. This can be related to the neuron. The sensory processor allows information from the outside world to be sensed in the form of chemical and physical stimuli and attended to various levels of focus and intent. Working memory serves as an encoding and retrieval processor. Information in the form of stimuli is encoded in accordance with explicit or implicit functions by the working memory processor. The working memory also retrieves information from previously stored material. Finally, the function of long-term memory is to store information through various categorical models or systems. Declarative...
Oncogenomics is a sub-field of genomics that characterizes cancer-associated genes. It focuses on genomic, epigenomic and transcript alterations in cancer. Cancer is a genetic disease caused by accumulation of DNA mutations and epigenetic alterations leading to unrestrained cell proliferation and neoplasm formation. The goal of oncogenomics is to identify new oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes that may provide new insights into cancer diagnosis, predicting clinical outcome of cancers and new targets for cancer therapies. The success of targeted cancer therapies such as Gleevec, Herceptin and Avastin raised the hope for oncogenomics to elucidate new targets for cancer treatment. Besides understanding the underlying genetic mechanisms that initiate or drive cancer progression, oncogenomics targets personalized cancer treatment. Cancer develops due to DNA mutations and epigenetic alterations that accumulate randomly. Identifying and targeting the mutations in an individual patient may lead to increased treatment efficacy. The completion of the Human Genome Project facilitated the field of oncogenomics and increased the abilities of researchers to find oncogenes. Sequencing technologies...
Genetics and the Origin of Species is a 1937 book by the Ukrainian-American evolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky. It is regarded as one of the most important works of modern synthesis and was one of the earliest. The book popularized the work of population genetics to other biologists and influenced their appreciation for the genetic basis of evolution. In his book Dobzhansky applied the theoretical work of Sewall Wright to the study of natural populations. Dobzhansky uses theories of mutation, natural selection, and speciation to explain the habits of populations and the resulting effects on their genetic behavior. The book said evolution was a process that accounts for the diversity of all life on Earth. Dobzhansky said that evolution regarding the origin and nature of species, which at the time was deemed mysterious, had potential for progress.  Background  In Darwin's theory of natural selection, more organisms are produced than can survive. Some have variations that give them a competitive advantage, and they have the best chance of surviving and procreating. The main element lacking in the theory was any mechanism that would allow organisms to pass on these...
Evolutionary biology is a subfield of biology that analyzes the four mechanisms of evolution: natural selection, mutation, genetic drift, and gene flow. Natural selection was independently discovered as the engine of evolution by Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, based on patterns in the geographic distribution of species. Gregor Mendel discovered the laws of heredity. R. A. Fisher unified Darwin and Mendel in the modern synthesis. The investigational range of current research has widened to encompass the genetic architecture of adaptation, molecular evolution, and the different forces that contribute to evolution, such as sexual selection, genetic drift, and biogeography. The newer field of evolutionary developmental biology investigates how embryogenesis is controlled, thus yielding a wider synthesis that integrates developmental biology with the fields of study covered by the earlier evolutionary synthesis. Evolution accounts for the unity and diversity of life on Earth Theodosius Dobzhansky famously said that nothing in biology makes sense without it.  Overview  Evolutionary biology explains diversity between species by analyzing changes in a few individuals...
In genetics and evolutionary biology, genetic admixture occurs when previously isolated populations of organisms interbreed, resulting in a population with genetic ancestry from both sources. It can occur between species, such as with hybrids, or within species, such as when geographically distant individuals migrate to new regions. It results in a population with genetic backgrounds, or a gene pool, that is a mix of the source populations. Genetic admixture is recognized as an important contributor to rapid evolutionary responses, both at the level of gene flow between populations and between species.  Examples  Climatic cycles facilitate genetic admixture in cold periods and genetic diversification in warm periods. Natural flooding can cause genetic admixture within populations of migrating fish species. Genetic admixture may have an important role for the success of populations that colonise a new area and interbreed with individuals of native populations. Similarly, climate-associated genetic variants may move more quickly by admixture than background variation across the genome.  Mapping  Admixture mapping is a method of gene mapping that uses a population of mixed ancestry...
The American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics is an organization composed of biochemical, clinical, cytogenetic, medical and molecular geneticists, genetic counselors, and other health care professionals committed to the practice of medical genetics. Melanie J. Wells, MPH, CAE, was named CEO in April 2023 and stepped down in November 2025. As of 2026, Melissa Forburger is the interim CEO.  History  The ACMG was founded in 1991 to represent doctoral-level practitioners and investigators of medical genetics. In 1993, ACMG publishes the first edition of the ACMG Standards and Guidelines for Clinical Genetic Laboratories. The first Annual Clinical Genetic Meeting is held in 1994. Next year, the College becomes a full member of the Council of Medical Specialty Societies. ACMG has an Official Journal, Genetics in Medicine. The first issue was released in 1998. In 2011, the organization's board of directors voted to change its name from the American College of Medical Genetics to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics.  Mission statement  ACMG aims to develop clinical practice guidelines laboratory services directories, databases, population screening...
An adapter or adaptor in genetic engineering is a short, chemically synthesized, double-stranded oligonucleotide that can be ligated to the ends of other DNA or RNA molecules. Double stranded adapters are different from linkers in that they contain one blunt end and one sticky end. For instance, a double stranded DNA adapter can be used to link the ends of two other DNA molecules i.e., ends that do not have sticky ends, that is complementary protruding single strands by themselves. It may be used to add sticky ends to cDNA allowing it to be ligated into the plasmid much more efficiently. Two adapters could base pair to each other to form dimers.  Types of Adapters  A conversion adapter is used to join a DNA insert cut with one restriction enzyme, say EcoRl, with a vector opened with another enzyme, Bam Hl. This adapter can be used to convert the cohesive end produced by Bam Hl to one produced by Eco Rl or vice versa. One of its applications is ligating cDNA into a plasmid or other vectors instead of using Terminal deoxynucleotide Transferase enzyme to add poly A to the cDNA fragment. NGS adapters are short 80 BP fragments that bind to DNA to aid in amplification during library...
Turi Emma King is a professor and Director of the Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of Bath. She was previously Professor of Public Engagement and Genetics at the University of Leicester. In 2012, King led the DNA verification during the exhumation and reburial of Richard III of England. In 2025, King led the analysis of Adolf Hitler's DNA, which indicated that he likely suffered from Kallmann syndrome some scientists have criticised the results as speculative while joining King in cautioning against presuming biological determinism. Alongside being an academic, King is known as a broadcaster, featuring with Stacey Dooley on the BBC Two genealogy series, DNA Family Secrets, presenting Ancient Murders Unearthed for Sky History and hosting the podcast Head Number 7 for Wondery.  Early life and education  King was born in Nottingham, England, as the eldest of three children born to Alan King, an engineer, and Daphne King, a housewife. King is named after Norwegian aviator Turi Widere, the first woman to fly for a Western airline. She moved to Canada at an early age and was brought up in Vancouver, British Columbia. She was educated at Point Grey...
The ancestry of modern Iberians, comprising the Spanish and Portuguese, reflects the Iberian Peninsula's position in the southwestern corner of Europe and broadly aligns with patterns typical of Southern and Western European populations. As is the case for most of the rest of Southern Europe, the principal ancestral origin of modern Iberians are Early European Farmers who arrived during the Neolithic. The large predominance of Y-Chromosome Haplogroup R1b, common throughout Western Europe, is also testimony to a sizeable input from various waves of Western Steppe Herders that originated in the Pontic-Caspian Steppe during the Bronze Age.  Overview  Modern Iberians' genetic inheritance largely derives from the pre-Roman inhabitants of the Iberian Peninsula who were deeply Romanized after the conquest of the region by the ancient Romans: Pre-Indo-European and Indo-European speaking pre-Celtic groups: Iberians, Lusitani, Vettones, Turdetani, Aquitani, Conii. Celtic groups: Gallaecians, Celtiberians, Turduli and Celtici. Genetic research on medieval populations of the Iberian Peninsula indicates that, compared with Iron Age groups, there was a discernible ancestry...
James Edward Bowman Jr. was an American physician and specialist in pathology, hematology, and genetics. He was a professor of pathology and genetics at the Pritzker School of Medicine at the University of Chicago. He published more than ninety works across the fields of human genetics population genetics and ethical, legal and public policy issues in human genetics. He received many awards, including the Chicago African American History Makers Award and recognition from the Hastings Center and Stanford's Kaiser Family Foundation, and Howard University.  Early life and education  James Edward Bowman was born on February 5, 1923, in Washington, D.C., the eldest of five children of Dorothy Bowman , a homemaker, and James Edward Bowman Sr., a dentist. His parents were African-American. He attended Dunbar High School before earning his undergraduate and medical degrees from Howard University in 1943 and 1946. He did internships at Freedmen's Hospital in Washington, D.C. and at Provident Hospital in Chicago. His residency in pathology was at St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago where he was the first African American resident, and was...
A Finnish heritage disease is any genetic disease or disorder that is significantly more common in people whose ancestors were ethnic Finns, natives of Finland and Northern Sweden and Northwest Russia . There are 36 rare diseases regarded as Finnish heritage diseases. The diseases are not restricted to Finns they are genetic diseases with far wider distribution in the world, but due to founder effects and genetic isolation they are more common in Finns. Within Finland these diseases are more common in the east and north, consistent with their higher association with ethnic Finns than with ethnic Swedes. The Finnish disease heritage does not extend to other ethnic groups in the region, the Smi and Karelians other than Finnish Karelians. It is attributed to a population bottleneck among ancestors of modern Finns, estimated to have occurred about 4000 years ago, presumably when populations practicing agriculture and animal husbandry arrived in Finland. In Finland about one in five persons carries a gene defect associated with at least one Finnish heritage disease, and about one in 500 children born is affected. Most of the gene defects are autosomal...
Lyudmila Nikolayevna Trut Russian:   , IPA:  6 November 1933 - 9 October 2024 was a Russian geneticist, ethologist, and evolutionist. She is known for developing domesticated silver foxes from wild foxes with Dmitry Belyayev at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics in Novosibirsk, Russia. The experiment, started in 1952, continues to this day covering nearly 60 generations of silver foxes selected for tameness. She held the positions of Senior researcher for Evolutionary genetics, Institute of Cytology and Genetics SB AS USSR, from 1969 to 1985 Head of Laboratory for Evolutionary Genetics, Institute of Cytology and Genetics, USSR, 1985 to 1990 Main Scientific Employee in the Laboratory for Evolutionary Genetics, Institute of Cytology and Genetics SB AS USSR, from 1990 and Professor in Genetics, from 2003 at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics. She coordinated educational activities at the experimental fox farm at the Institute of Cytology and Genetics of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Novosibirsk, Russia. Trut was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2020. She died in Novosibirsk on 9 October...
Mendelian traits behave according to the model of monogenic or simple gene inheritance in which one gene corresponds to one trait. Discrete traits as opposed to continuously varying traits such as height with simple Mendelian inheritance patterns are relatively rare in nature, and many of the clearest examples in humans cause disorders. Discrete traits found in humans are common examples for teaching genetics.  Mendelian model  According to the model of Mendelian inheritance, alleles may be dominant or recessive, one allele is inherited from each parent, and only those who inherit a recessive allele from each parent exhibit the recessive phenotype. Offspring with either one or two copies of the dominant allele will display the dominant phenotype. Very few phenotypes are purely Mendelian traits. Common violations of the Mendelian model include incomplete dominance, codominance, genetic linkage, environmental effects, and quantitative contributions from a number of genes see: gene interactions, polygenic inheritance, oligogenic inheritance. OMIM is a comprehensive database of human genotype-phenotype links. Many visible human traits that exhibit...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 688 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
S is a statistical programming language developed primarily by John Chambers and Rick Becker, Trevor Hastie, William Cleveland and Allan Wilks of Bell Laboratories. The aim of the language, as expressed by John Chambers, is to turn ideas into software, quickly and faithfully. It was formerly widely used by academic researchers, but has now been superseded by the partially backwards compatible R language, a part of the GNU free software project. S-PLUS was a widely used commercial implementation of S that was formerly sold by TIBCO Software.  History   Old S  S is one of several statistical computing languages that were designed at Bell Laboratories, and first took form between 1975-1976. Up to that time, much of the statistical computing was done by directly calling Fortran subroutines however, S was designed to offer an alternate and more interactive approach, motivated in part by exploratory data analysis advocated by John Tukey. Early design decisions that hold even today include interactive graphics devices printers and character terminals at the time, and providing easily accessible documentation for the functions. Development of the project...
Microsoft Visual Programming Language, or VPL, is a visual programming and dataflow programming language developed by Microsoft for the Microsoft Robotics Studio. VPL is based on the event-driven and data-driven approach. The programming language is distinguished from other Microsoft programming languages such as Visual Basic and C, as it is the only Microsoft language that is a true visual programming language. Microsoft has utilized the term Visual in its previous programming products to reflect that a large degree of development in these languages can be performed by dragging and dropping in a traditional wysiwyg fashion.  See also  Dataflow programming List of robotics software Visual programming languages Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio VIPLE: Visual IoTRobotics Programming Language Environment  References   Further reading  Johns, Kyle Taylor, Trevor . Professional Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio. John Wiley  Sons. ISBN 978-0470141076.  External links  Microsoft Visual Programming Language Visual IoTRobotics Programming Language Environment: Andreas Ulbrich demonstrates the Microsoft Visual Programming Language
Limbo is a programming language for writing distributed systems and is the language used to write applications for the Inferno operating system. It was designed at Bell Labs by Sean Dorward, Phil Winterbottom, and Rob Pike. The Limbo compiler generates architecture-independent object code which is then interpreted by the Dis virtual machine or compiled just before runtime to improve performance. Therefore all Limbo applications are completely portable across all Inferno platforms. Limbo's approach to concurrency was inspired by Hoare's communicating sequential processes , as implemented and amended in Pike's earlier Newsqueak language and Winterbottom's Alef.  Language features  Limbo supports the following features: modular programming concurrent computing strong type checking at compile and run-time interprocess communication over typed channels automatic garbage collection simple abstract data types  Virtual machine  The Dis virtual machine that executes Limbo code is a CISC-like VM, with instructions for arithmetic, control flow, data motion, process creation, synchronizing and communicating between processes, loading modules of code, and support for higher-level data...
Vala is an object-oriented programming language with a self-hosting compiler that generates an intermediate representation in C source code and uses the GObject system. It is free and open-source software released with a GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1. Vala is syntactically similar to C and includes notable features such as anonymous functions, signals, properties, generics, assisted memory management, exception handling, type inference, and foreach statements. Its developers, Jrg Billeter and Raffaele Sandrini, wanted to bring these features to the plain C runtime with little overhead and no special runtime support by targeting the GObject object system. Rather than compiling directly to machine code or assembly language, it compiles to a lower-level intermediate language. It transpiles to C, which is then compiled with a C compiler for a given platform, such as GNU Compiler Collection or Clang. Using functions from native code libraries requires writing vapi files, defining the library interfaces. Writing these interface definitions is well-documented for C libraries. Bindings are already available for many libraries, including some not based on GObject...
Natural language programming is an ontology-assisted way of programming in terms of natural language sentences, e.g. English. A structured document with Content, sections and subsections for explanations of sentences forms a NLP document, which is actually a computer program. Natural language programming is not to be mixed up with natural language interfacing or voice control where a program is first written and then communicated with through natural language using an interface added on. In NLP the functionality of a program is organised only for the definition of the meaning of sentences. For instance, NLP can be used to represent all the knowledge of an autonomous robot. Having done so, its tasks can be scripted by its users so that the robot can execute them autonomously while keeping to prescribed rules of behaviour as determined by the robot's user. Such robots are called transparent robots as their reasoning is transparent to users and this develops trust in robots. Natural language use and natural language user interfaces include Inform 7, a natural programming language for making interactive fiction, Shakespeare, an esoteric natural programming language in the style...
Snap! is a free block-based educational graphical programming language and online community. Snap allows students to explore, create, and remix interactive animations, games, stories, and more, while learning about mathematical and computational ideas. The Snap! editor, and programs created in it, are web applications that run in the browser without requiring installation. It is built on top of Morphic.js, a Morphic GUI, written by Jens Mnig as 'middle layer' between Snap! itself and 'bare' JavaScript.  User interface  In Snap!, the screen is organized in three resizable columns containing five regions: the block group selector , the blocks palette , the main area , and the stage area with the sprite selector showing sprite thumbnails below it. In the interactively resizable stage area are shown the graphical results of the scripts running in the script area andor interactively double-clicked individual blocks in any palette. Individual blocks can be dragged from the palette onto the scripts area to be associated with the selected sprite. Snap...
Elm is a domain-specific programming language for declaratively creating web browser-based graphical user interfaces. Elm is purely functional, and is developed with emphasis on usability, performance, and robustness. It advertises no runtime exceptions in practice, made possible by the Elm compiler's static type checking.  History  Elm was initially designed by Evan Czaplicki as his thesis in 2012. The first release of Elm came with many examples and an online editor that made it easy to try out in a web browser. Czaplicki joined Prezi in 2013 to work on Elm, and in 2016 moved to NoRedInk as an Open Source Engineer, also starting the Elm Software Foundation. The initial implementation of the Elm compiler targets HyperText Markup Language , Cascading Style Sheets , and JavaScript. The set of core tools has continued to expand, now including a read-eval-print loop , package manager, time-travelling debugger, and installers for macOS and Windows. Elm also has an ecosystem of community created libraries, and Ellie, an advanced online editor that allows saved work and including community libraries.  Features  Elm has a small set of language constructs, including...
A dynamic programming language is a type of programming language that allows various operations to be determined and executed at runtime. This is different from the compilation phase. Key decisions about variables, method calls, or data types are made when the program is running, unlike in static languages, where the structure and types are fixed during compilation. Dynamic languages provide flexibility. This allows developers to write more adaptable and concise code. For instance, in a dynamic language, a variable can start as an integer. It can later be reassigned to hold a string without explicit type declarations. This feature of dynamic typing enables more fluid and less restrictive coding. Developers can focus on the logic and functionality rather than the constraints of the language.  Implementation   Eval  Some dynamic languages offer an eval function. This function takes a string or abstract syntax tree containing code in the language and executes it. If this code stands for an expression, the resulting value is returned. Erik Meijer and Peter Drayton distinguish the runtime code generation offered by eval from the dynamic loading offered by shared libraries and warn...
ABC is an imperative general-purpose programming language and integrated development environment developed at Centrum Wiskunde  Informatica , in Amsterdam, Netherlands by Leo Geurts, Lambert Meertens, and Steven Pemberton. It is interactive, structured, high-level, and intended to be used instead of BASIC, Pascal, or AWK. It is intended for teaching or prototyping, but not as a systems-programming language. ABC was developed from the B language, an earlier creation by Meertens and Pemberton unrelated to Thompson and Ritchie's language of the same name which was the first language to use indentation for block structure. ABC had a major influence on the design of the Python language, whose creator, Guido van Rossum, had worked for several years on the ABC system in the mid-1980s.  Features  Its designers claim that ABC programs are typically around a quarter the size of the equivalent Pascal or C programs, and more readable. Key features include: Only five basic data types No required variable declarations Explicit support for top-down programming Statement nesting is indicated by indentation, via the off-side rule Infinite precision arithmetic, unlimited-sized lists...
Hack is a programming language for the HipHop Virtual Machine , created by Meta as a dialect of PHP. The language implementation is free and open-source software, licensed under an MIT License. Hack allows use of both dynamic typing and static typing. This kind of a type system is called gradual typing, which is also implemented in other programming languages such as ActionScript. Hack's type system allows types to be specified for function arguments, function return values, and class properties however, types of local variables are always inferred and cannot be specified.  History  Hack was introduced on March 20, 2014. Before the announcement of the new language, Facebook had already implemented the code and tested it on a large part of its web site.  Features  Hack is designed to interoperate seamlessly with PHP, which is a widely used open-source scripting language that has a focus on web development and can be embedded into HTML. A majority of valid PHP scripts are also valid in Hack however, many less-often used PHP features and language constructs are unsupported in Hack. Hack extends the type hinting available in PHP 5 through the introduction...
A is a high-level, interactive, interpreted array programming language designed for numerically intensive applications, especially those found in financial applications.  History  In 1988, Arthur Whitney began work on the A programming language to replace APL. Other developers at Morgan Stanley extended it to A, adding a graphical user interface and other language features. Arthur Whitney went on to create a proprietary array language named K. Like J, K omits the APL character set. It lacks some of the perceived complexities of A, such as the existence of statements and two different modes of syntax.  Features  A provides an extended set of functions and operators, a graphical user interface with automatic synchronizing of widgets and variables, asynchronous executing of functions associated with variables and events, dynamic loading of user compiled subroutines, and other features. A runs on many Unix variants, including Linux. It is free and open source software released under a GNU General Public License. A newer GUI has not yet been ported to all supported platforms. The A language implements the following changes to the APL language: an A function may have...
Tcl pronounced as an acronym, , like tickle, or as an initialism, , like T-C-L originally Tool Command Language is a high-level, general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic programming language. It was designed with the goal of being very simple but powerful. Tcl casts everything into the mold of a command, even programming constructs like variable assignment and procedure definition. Tcl supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative, functional, and procedural styles. It is commonly embedded into C applications for rapid prototyping, scripted applications, GUIs, and testing. Tcl interpreters are available for many operating systems, allowing Tcl code to run on a wide variety of systems. Because Tcl is a very compact language, it is used on embedded systems platforms, both in its full form and in several other small-footprint versions. The popular combination of Tcl with the Tk extension is referred to as TclTk and enables building a graphical user interface natively in Tcl. TclTk is included in the standard Python installation in the form of Tkinter.  History  The Tcl programming language was created...
The history of programming languages spans from documentation of early mechanical computers to modern tools for software development. Early programming languages were highly specialized, relying on mathematical notation and similarly obscure syntax. Throughout the 20th century, research in compiler theory led to the creation of high-level programming languages, which use a more accessible syntax to communicate instructions. The first high-level programming language was Plankalkl, created by Konrad Zuse between 1942 and 1945. The first high-level language to have an associated compiler was created by Corrado Bhm in 1951, for his PhD thesis. The first commercially available language was FORTRAN , developed in 1956 first manual appeared in 1956, but first developed in 1954 by a team led by John Backus at IBM.  Early history  During 1842-1849, Ada Lovelace translated the memoir of Italian mathematician Luigi Menabrea about Charles Babbage's newest proposed machine: the Analytical Engine she supplemented the memoir with notes that specified in detail a method for calculating Bernoulli numbers with the engine, recognized by most historians as the world's first...
The J programming language, developed in the early 1990s by Kenneth E. Iverson and Roger Hui, is an array programming language based primarily on APL . To avoid repeating the APL special-character problem, J uses only the basic ASCII character set, resorting to the use of the dot and colon as inflections to form short words similar to digraphs. Most such primary J words serve as mathematical symbols, with the dot or colon extending the meaning of the basic characters available. Also, many characters which in other languages often must be paired are treated by J as stand-alone words or, when inflected, as single-character roots of multi-character words. J is a very terse array programming language, and is most suited to mathematical and statistical programming, especially when performing operations on matrices. It has also been used in extreme programming and network performance analysis. Like John Backus's languages FP and FL, J supports function-level programming via its tacit programming features. Unlike most languages that support object-oriented programming, J's flexible hierarchical namespace scheme where every name...
In programming language theory, semantics is the rigorous mathematical logic study of the meaning of programming languages. Semantics assigns computational meaning to valid strings in a programming language syntax. It is closely related to, and often crosses over with, the semantics of mathematical proofs. Semantics describes the processes a computer follows when executing a program in that specific language. This can be done by describing the relationship between the input and output of a program, or giving an explanation of how the program will be executed on a certain platform, thereby creating a model of computation.  History  In 1967, Robert W. Floyd published the paper Assigning meanings to programs his chief aim was a rigorous standard for proofs about computer programs, including proofs of correctness, equivalence, and termination. Floyd further wrote: A semantic definition of a programming language, in our approach, is founded on a syntactic definition. It must specify which of the phrases in a syntactically correct program represent commands, and what conditions must be imposed on an interpretation in the neighborhood of each command. In 1969, Tony Hoare published...
Clean is a general-purpose purely functional programming language. Originally called the Concurrent Clean System or the Clean System, it has been developed by a group of researchers from the Radboud University in Nijmegen since 1987. Although development of the language has slowed, some researchers are still working in the language. In 2018, a spin-off company was founded that uses Clean.  Features  Clean shares many properties and syntax with a younger sibling language, Haskell: referential transparency, list comprehension, guards, garbage collection, higher order functions, currying, and lazy evaluation. However, Clean deals with mutable state and inputoutput through a uniqueness type system, in contrast to Haskell's use of monads. The compiler takes advantage of the uniqueness type system to generate more efficient code, because it knows that at any point during the execution of the program, only one reference can exist to a value with a unique type. Therefore, a unique value can be changed in place. An integrated development environment for Microsoft Windows is included in the Clean distribution. An extension for Visual Studio Code also exists that integrates with...
bc is an arbitrary-precision mathematical calculator program with an input language similar to C. It supports both interactive, command-line user-interface and script processing.  Overview  A typical interactive usage is typing the command bc on a Unix command prompt and entering a mathematical expression, such as  2, whereupon 8 will be output. While bc can work with arbitrary precision, it defaults to zero digits after the decimal point, so the expression 23 yields 0 . This can surprise new bc users. The -l option to bc sets the default scale to 20 and adds several additional mathematical functions to the language.  History  bc first appeared in Version 6 Unix in 1975. It was written by Lorinda Cherry of Bell Labs as a front end to dc, an arbitrary-precision calculator written by Robert Morris and Cherry. dc performed arbitrary-precision computations specified in reverse Polish notation. bc provided a conventional programming-language interface to the same capability via a simple compiler a single yacc source file comprising a few hundred lines of code, which converted a C-like syntax into dc...
Programming languages are used for controlling the behavior of a machine . Like natural languages, programming languages follow rules for syntax and semantics. There are thousands of programming languages and new ones are created every year. Few languages ever become sufficiently popular that they are used by more than a few people, but professional programmers may use dozens of languages in a career. Most programming languages are not standardized by an international standard, even widely used ones, such as Perl or Standard ML . Notable standardized programming languages include ALGOL, C, C, JavaScript , Smalltalk, Prolog, Common Lisp, Scheme , ISLISP, Ada, Fortran, COBOL, SQL, and Query.  General comparison  The following table compares general and technical information for a selection of commonly used programming languages. See the individual languages' articles for further information.  Type systems   Failsafe IO and system calls  Most programming languages will print an error message or throw an exception if an inputoutput operation or other system call e.g., chmod, kill...
Piaget may refer to:  People with the surname  douard Piaget , Swiss entomologist Jean Piaget , Swiss developmental psychologist Paul Piaget , several people Solange Piaget Knowles , American recording artist, actress, model and DJ  Other uses  Piaget's theory of cognitive development, a theory about the nature and development of human intelligence Piaget SA, a Swiss watchmaker and jeweler Piaget Building, a building in New York City, US Jean Piaget University of Angola, a university in based in Luanda, Angola Jean Piaget University of Cape Verde, a university in Praia, Cape Verde, with a smaller second location in Mindelo, Cape Verde Instituto Piaget, a Portuguese private institution of higher education Piaget Belgian Open, a former men's golf tournament in Belgium  See also  Paget
Chingford Rugby Club is an English rugby union club based in Chingford, London. The first V team currently play in Counties 1 Essex. The club has had many ties with players playing for notable countiesclubs such as Eastern Counties, Essex, Saracens, London Irish, Northampton Saints, England U21's and Brive.  History  The club was founded in 1928 by members of Chingford congregational church the club was originally known as Chingford Guild Rugby Club. A ground was loaned by a local milkman named Mr Soper adjacent to the reservoirs at Lee Valley. Members of the club then built a changing building with two changing rooms, plunge bath and water heating stove. A double Decker bus was acquired for the spectators and the players washed in a local piggery. In 1930, the club was renamed Chingford Rugby Club and in 1945 the club was reformed using an old army hut. The original building had been destroyed during the 2nd World War on VE night. This hut was used until 1947 when the Rendezvous Caf was used for changing. During the fifties the club moved to its previous site. The clubhouse was extended in 1960, again in 1968, and finally in 2012 by contributors to it present size. In 2018...
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Chascoms is in Argentina and is a suffragan of the Archdiocese of La Plata.  History  On 27 March 1980, Blessed John Paul II established the Diocese of Chascoms from the Archdiocese of La Plata and the Diocese of Mar del Plata.  Ordinaries   Bishops of Chascoms  Rodolfo Bufano  , appointed bishop of San Justo Jos Mara Montes  , retired Juan Carlos Maccarone  , appointed bishop of Santiago del Estero Carlos Humberto Malfa , retired Juan Libana  Auxiliary Bishop  Jos Mara Balia  References 
Doesburg x  is a municipality and a city in the eastern Netherlands in the province of Gelderland. Doesburg received city rights in 1237 and had a population of 11,064 in 2021. The city is situated on the right bank of the River IJssel at its confluence with the River Oude IJssel. It is part of the Arnhem-Nijmegen Green Metropolitan Region Dutch: Groene Metropoolregio Arnhem-Nijmegen, which aids planning and development in the region's eighteen municipalities.  History  Doesburg received city rights in 1237, one year later than the neighbouring town of Doetinchem. Because of its strategic position along the Oude IJssel and Gelderse IJssel, Doesburg has been an important fortified city for a long time. Its fortification made Doesburg an important economic and administrative city. The Martinikerk, the main church in Doesburg, is 94 meters tall. For many reasons, including the IJssel's decreasing depth, the prosperity of Doesburg stagnated after the 15th century. Due to its position near the Ijssel Doesburg became the location of military conflicts, it was captured by Willem IV van den Bergh and besieged 100 years later by the French. Doesburg became...
The Long Haul is a 2026 road drama film written and directed by David Drake . It stars Margo Martindale, Cole Sprouse, Stephen Root, Yalitza Aparicio, Jefferson White, and Wes Studi. The film premiered at the Tribeca Festival on June 7, 2026.  Premise  Long-haul trucking has been CJ's entire life. When she receives a letter from the parole board, everything she has been running from finally catches up to her forcing her to deal with her past, present, and future all at once.  Cast  Margo Martindale as Carol Jane CJ, a semitruck driver Cole Sprouse as Alex, a semitruck driver and influencer Stephen Root as CJ's friend Yalitza Aparicio as Araceli, a prostitute CJ helps Jefferson White Wes Studi  Production  Principal photography had wrapped in March 2025, on a road drama film written and directed by David Drake, and starring Margo Martindale, Cole Sprouse, Stephen Root, Yalitza Aparicio, Jefferson White, and Wes Studi. In April 2026, the film was the first to be selected to screen at the Tribeca Festival.  Release  The Long Haul premiered at the Tribeca Festival on June 7, 2026.  References   External links  The Long Haul at...
Seymour is a city in Jackson County, Indiana, United States. The population was 21,569 at the 2020 census, making it the largest city in Jackson County. It was platted in 1852 by landowner Meedy Shields and named after a railroad engineer. Seymour developed as a railroad town after the north-south Jeffersonville Railroad and the east-west Ohio and Mississippi Railroad intersected in the early 1850s, leading to the city to be nicknamed the Crossroads of Southern Indiana. In October 1866, the local Reno Gang carried out what is considered to be the first peacetime train robbery in the United States-an episode that brought vigilante reprisals and lasting notoriety. During World War II the U.S. Army Air Forces operated Freeman Army Airfield southwest of the city, a training base later known for the 1945 Freeman Field mutiny, a milestone in the desegregation of the U.S. military. The modern economy is anchored by manufacturing and distribution led by the automotive-parts maker Aisin, which opened a Seymour plant in the 1980s. Beginning in the late 1980s, the city drew substantial immigration from San Sebastin Coatn, Guatemala. Its Hispanic population grew rapidly in the early 21st century...
Dreamland is a 2016 American comedy-drama film directed by Robert Schwartzman in his directorial debut, from a screenplay by Benjamin Font and Schwartzman. It stars Johnny Simmons, Amy Landecker, Jason Schwartzman, Nol Wells, Alan Ruck, Beverly D'Angelo, Talia Shire, Shay Mitchell, Frankie Shaw and Nick Thune. The film had its world premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 14, 2016. The film was released in a limited release and through video on demand by Orion Pictures and Gunpowder  Sky on November 11, 2016.  Premise  Monty Fagan , a pianist, begins a relationship that upends his home life.  Cast   Production  In March 2015, it was revealed Robert Schwartzman would direct the film in his directorial debut from a screenplay by him and Benjamin Font, with Johnny Simmons, Amy Landecker, Frankie Shaw and Beverly D'Angelo would star in the film, while Schwartzman and Mel Eslyn producing.  Release  The film had its world premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 14, 2016. Shortly thereafter, Orion Pictures and Gunpowder  Sky acquired US and Latin American rights to the film and set the release date for November 11, 2016.  Critical reception... 
The 1956-57 City Cup was the 52nd edition of the City Cup, a cup competition in Northern Irish football. The tournament was won by Glentoran for the 10th time. They defeated Distillery 2-1 in a test match at Solitude after both teams finished level on points in the group standings.  Group standings   Test match   References   External links  Northern Ireland - List of City Cup Winners
Daylighting a tunnel is to remove its roof of overlying rock and soil, exposing the railway or roadway to daylight and converting it to a railway or roadway cut. Tunnels are often daylighted to improve vertical or horizontal clearances-for example, to accommodate double-stack container trains or electrifying rail lines, where increasing the size of the tunnel bore is impractical.  List of daylighted tunnels   Australia  The Moocomonga Tunnel carried the Central Western railway line through the Gogango Range in Queensland, Australia 23.70164S 149.92430E  -23.70164 149.92430 . It opened in 1876. The tunnel was daylighted in 1983 due to rock falls which blocked the tunnel from time to time. The Coromandel and Pinera Tunnels on the Belair line in Adelaide, South Australia, both built as a single track tunnel with the line in 1883, were daylighted in the 1920s when the line to Belair was duplicated. The Arncliffe Tunnel on the NSW South Coast Line was daylighted and replaced with a road bridge when the track was quadruplicated in 1921 The Waterfall Tunnel on the NSW South Coast Line was daylighted in 1914 when the line was duplicated. 3...
Nikola Pavlovi Serbian Cyrillic:  , born 13 May 1996 is a Serbian professional basketball player for KK Teodo of the Montenegrin Prva A Liga. He is playing as a power forward.  External links  Profile at abaliga.com Profile at eurobasket.com Profile at FIBA
The 1997-98 St. John's Red Storm men's basketball team represented St. John's University during the 1997-98 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The team was coached by Fran Fraschilla in his second year at the school. St. John's home games are played at Alumni Hall and Madison Square Garden and the team is a member of the Big East Conference.  Off season   Departures   Class of 1997 signees   Roster   Schedule and results   Team players drafted into the NBA   References 
Fran Gebhard is a Canadian actress and theatre director. She is most noted for her performance in the 1987 film Blue City Slammers, for which she received a Genie Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress at the 9th Genie Awards. She is currently a professor at the University of Victoria.  Career  Gebhard has had supporting or guest roles in the films A Piano for Mrs. Cimino, Police Academy 3: Back in Training, Love and Murder, Ernest Goes to School and Case 39, and the television series Check It Out!, Friday the 13th: The Series, T. and T., The Dead Zone, The Chris Isaak Show and The L Word. As a director, her work has included productions of You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown, Wreckage, The School for Scandal, Crackpot, The Affections of May, Twelfth Night, For the Pleasure of Seeing Her Again and A Midsummer Night's Dream. She has also been associated with the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity, including as program head of the Playwrights' Colony and coordinator of the Screenwriters' Workshop. Gebhard has often served as a festival adjudicator for Theatre BC's regional zone festivals. Gebhard adjudicated the 2014 North Island Zone Drama Festival. In 2015, she was the Main...
Kitaazumi is a district located in Nagano Prefecture, Japan. As of 2023, the district has an estimated population of 29,918 with a density of 54.9 persons per km2. The total area is 544.5 km2.  Municipalities  The district consists of one town and three villages: Hakuba Ikeda Matsukawa Otari Notes  History   District Timeline  1878 - Founded after Azumi District was split into Minamiazumi and Kitaazumi Districts.
John Edward Casida was an American entomologist, toxicologist and professor at the University of California, Berkeley.  Birth and education  Casida was born in 1929 in the United States. He completed his BS from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1951. He completed his MS in 1951 and PhD in 1954 from the same university.  Research  Casida is known for his research on the toxicology and mode of action of most major insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, and their synergists. This research included the discovery that ryanoid and cyclodiene insecticides disrupt the calcium and GABA channels, which has opened up research directed towards identifying new compounds that interact with GABA receptors. Additional areas of study include research on the synthesis, metabolism, toxicokinetics and mechanisms of toxicity of the organophosphates, pyrethroids and neonicotinoids. In addition, he is described as being a Highly Cited researcher by ISI Web of Knowledge, and currently has in excess of 850 scientific publications. He synthesized compounds more active and less persistent than insecticides then used in agricultural practice and his contributions...
Palomino is a genetic color in horses, consisting of a gold coat and white mane and tail the degree of whiteness can vary from bright white to yellow. The palomino color derived from the breeding of Spanish horses in the United States. Genetically, the palomino color is created by a single allele of a dilution gene called the cream gene working on a red base coat. Palomino is created by a genetic mechanism of incomplete dominance, hence it is not considered true-breeding. However, most color breed registries that record palomino horses were founded before equine coat color genetics were understood as well as they are today, therefore the standard definition of a palomino is based on the visible coat color, not heritability nor the underlying presence of the dilution gene. Due to their distinct color, palominos stand out in a show ring, and are much sought after as parade horses. They were particularly popular in movies and television during the 1940s and 1950s. One of the most famous palomino horses was Trigger, known as the smartest horse in movies, the faithful mount of the Hollywood cowboy star Roy Rogers. Another famous palomino was Mister Ed real name Bamboo...
The Democratic Party was a centrist to centre-left political party in Malta. It was founded in 2016 after a split from the Labour Party. It elected Malta's first two third party MPs for the first time since the country's Independence. In August 2020 the party announced an agreement to merge with the green Democratic Alternative party to form a new party called ADPD. The merger was conducted on 17 October 2020.  History  The PD was founded in 2016 by Marlene Farrugia, who previously sat as an MP for the Labour Party before leaving the party and sitting as an independent MP. Announcing the formation of the new party in June 2016, Farrugia as interim leader stated that the party was a new alternative to the traditionally dominant Labour and Nationalist parties. Upon formation, founder Marlene Farrugia was declared interim leader. On 21 October 2016, Farrugia was elected the first leader of the PD at a general meeting to confirm the party executive. The party was formally registered with the Electoral Commission of Malta in November 2016. The party afterwards engaged in talks to form a pre-electoral coalition with the Nationalist Party, resulting in...
Han Li or Hon Lik Chinese:  pinyin: Hn L Cantonese Yale: Hon Lik is a Chinese pharmacist who invented the modern electronic cigarette.  Early life  Hon Lik was born in Shenyang, China in 1951. He started smoking at age 18. He attended Liaoning University of Traditional Chinese Medicine and graduated with a pharmaceutical degree. He joined the Liaoning Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine in 1982.  Career  From 1990 to 1994, Hon Lik was the Deputy Director of Liaoning Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, in charge of research and development of new botanical drugs. In 2003, he become Director of Western Technologies Corp. He was a co-founder of Dragonite International Limited, a Hong Kong company in health care, pharmaceuticals, and electronic cigarettes. Hon was Dragonite's Chief Executive Officer and Director for eight years. Golden Dragon Group purchased Dragonite in 2007. Golden Dragon Group sold Hon's e-cigarette invention to Imperial Tobacco, the tobacco giant in Britain, in 2013. Hon Lik has compared the e-cigarette to the digital camera, suggesting it represents a similar technological shift from analog to digital. He has expressed support...
Kane Kramer is a British inventor and businessman. He is credited with the initial invention of the digital audio player, in 1979.  Invention of the DAP  In 1981 Kramer filed for a UK patent for his newly conceived digital audio player, the II. UK patent 2115996 was issued in 1985, and U.S. patent 4,667,088 was issued in 1987. The player was the size of a credit card with a small LCD screen and navigation and volume buttons and would have held data of at least 8 MB of solid-state bubble memory chip with a capacity of 3 minutes' worth of audio. Plans were made for a 10-minute stereo memory card and the system was at one time fitted with a hard drive enabling over an hour of recorded digital music. His first investor was Sir Paul McCartney. Later, Kramer set up a company to promote II and five working prototypes were produced with 16-bit sampling at 44.1 kilohertz with the pre-production prototype being unveiled at the APRS AudioVisual trade exhibition in October 1986. In a 2004 interview with The Guardian, Kramer stated that the company at the time had orders worth 60 million for the device from the recording industry. However, in 1988 a boardroom dispute...
The Sixteen previously known as the Symphony of Harmony and Invention are a British choir and period instrument orchestra. Founded by Harry Christophers, they started as an unnamed group of sixteen friends in 1977, giving their first billed concert in 1979. The group performs early English polyphony, works of the Renaissance, Baroque and early Classical music, and a diversity of 20th- and 21st-century music. The Sixteen are The Voices of Classic FM, TV media partner with Sky Arts and associate artists of the Southbank Centre in London and Bridgewater Hall in Manchester. The group promotes an annual series at the Queen Elizabeth Hall as well as the Choral Pilgrimage, a tour of Britain's finest cathedrals: bringing music back to the buildings for which it was written. The BBC television series Sacred Music was produced in collaboration with the Sixteen between 2008 and 2015, two full series aired along with numerous specials. The Sixteen are a registered charity under English law.  Tours  The Sixteen tour throughout Europe, Asia, Australia and the Americas and have given regular performances at major concert halls and festivals worldwide, including the Barbican Centre in London...
How Music Got Free: The End of an Industry, the Turn of the Century, and the Patient Zero of Piracy also published as How Music Got Free: What Happens When an Entire Generation Commits the Same Crime?, How Music Got Free: The Inventor, The Mogul and the Thief, and How Music Got Free: A Story of Obsession and Invention is a non-fiction book by journalist Stephen Witt. The book chronicles the invention of the MP3 format for audio information, detailing the efforts by researchers such as Karlheinz Brandenburg, Bernhard Grill and Harald Popp to analyze human hearing and successfully compress songs in a form that can be easily transmitted. Witt also documents the rise of the warez scene and spread of copyright-infringing efforts online while detailing the campaigns by music industry executives such as Doug Morris to adapt to changing technology. The publisher Viking distributed the work on June 16, 2015. The book has received praise from publications such as Kirkus Reviews and The Washington Post.  Background and book contents  The book notes that, at a presentation to the Fraunhofer Society, Brandenburg and his team's presentation of the technology that could re-create the fidelity...
Johan Vaaler was a Norwegian inventor and patent clerk. He has often erroneously been identified as the inventor of the common paper clip.  Biography  John was at Aurskog-Hland in Akershus, Norway. Vaaler worked from 1892 until his death in 1910 as a patent examiner and manager at the patent office of Alfred Jrgen Bryn in Kristiania . Around 1899, Vaaler designed a kind of binding to hold paper together, consisting of a thread of steel wire. He applied for a German patent on November 12, 1900 and it was granted on June 6, 1901. He also filed an application for a United States patent on January 9, 1901. The U.S. patent was granted on June 4, 1901. Unknown to Vaaler, a more functional and practical paper clip was already in production by the British Gem Manufacturing Company Ltd, but not yet marketed in Norway. His design was inferior because it lacked the two full loops of the wire. Vaaler probably succeeded in having his design patented abroad, despite the existence of a better product, because patent authorities at that time were quite liberal and rewarded any marginal modification of earlier inventions...
Charles Henry Phillips was an English pharmacist, known for his invention Phillips' Milk of Magnesia.  Early days  He moved from England to an estate at 666 Glenbrook Rd. in Glenbrook, a section of Stamford, Connecticut and established the Phillips Camphor and Wax Company there.  The antacid concept  In Stamford he concocted and received a patent in 1873 for hydrate of magnesia mixed with water which he called Milk of Magnesia.  Final days, achievements and legacy  Phillips produced milk of magnesia and other pharmaceuticals at his Glenbrook firm, which incorporated in 1885 as the Charles H. Phillips Company. After Phillips' death of apoplexy in New York on 29 October 1888, his four sons ran the corporation until 1923, when it was acquired by Sterling Drug, Inc. Phillips' Milk of Magnesia is still manufactured today. The final blue bottle was filled in 1976, when production at the Glenbrook plant was phased out. Sterling, and its Phillips' Milk of Magnesia, was purchased by Bayer in 1994.  References  Made In Stamford - A History of Stamford as a Manufacturing Center. Made In Stamford. Archived from the original on 25 October 2005. Retrieved 6 September...
Ken Hakuta , known as Dr. Fad since 1983, is an American businessman, inventor, and television personality. Hakuta, as Dr. Fad, was the host of the popular children's invention TV show The Dr. Fad Show, which ran from 1988 to 1994. The show featured children's inventions and promoted creativity and inventiveness in children. Hakuta was the organizer of four Fad Fairs, conventions of inventors with fun, wacky ideas, in Detroit, New York City and Philadelphia.  Overview  Hakuta imported and merchandised the Wacky Wall Walker, one of the best selling toys of the 1980s. The Wacky Wall Walker became a fad hit in 1983, and over 240 million units have sold. In 1983, NBC aired an animated Christmas special, Deck the Halls with Wacky Walls, to capitalize on the toy fad. Their popularity peaked after the Kellogg Company inserted them as free prizes in cereal boxes. The VH1 program I Love the 80s: 1983 features Dr. Fad and the Wall Walkers. Hakuta is also an art collector and is particularly known for a large group of Shaker items, furniture and other pieces, that he purchased in 1991. These are now part of the so-called Mount Lebanon Shaker Society collection. In 1998, Hakuta...
Leonardo's self-propelled cart is an invention designed by Leonardo da Vinci, considered the ancestor of the modern automobile.  Description  The machine is powered by two symmetric springs hidden in drum-like casings. While one spring would be enough to move the device, two symmetric springs probably looked like a more logically perfect solution. Leonardo had been well aware that the powering force provided by the springs drops significantly when they unwind. In order to deliver smooth and stable motion, the machine features a balance wheel, as used in clocks. The control mechanism is quite complex and allows it to follow a pre-programmed path automatically. The machine also features a mechanism similar to a differential that in addition allows the turning angle to be set. A replica of the self-propelled cart is kept at the museum Clos Luc, near Chteau d'Amboise, in France. The television show Doing DaVinci also made a replica in 2009.  See also  Atlantic Codex List of works by Leonardo the Vinci Science and inventions of Leonardo the Vinci  References   External links  Self-Propelled Cart Il carro automotore
Stefanos Geroulanos is an American historian and educator. His books include The Invention of Prehistory .  Early life and education  Geroulanos grew up in Greece. He received a BA from Princeton University in 2001 and a PhD from Johns Hopkins University in 2008.  Career  Geroulanos is a professor of history at New York University and director of the Remarque Institute at the University. He is an executive editor of the Journal of the History of Ideas.  Publications  An Atheism that is Not Humanist Emerges in French Thought. Cultural Memory in The Present series. Redwood City, California: Stanford University Press, 2010. ISBN 9780804762984. Experimente im Individuum: Kurt Goldstein und die Frage des Organismus. With Todd Meyers. Berlin: 2014. ISBN 978-3-94136-030-3. Transparency in Postwar France: a Critical History of the Present. Stanford University Press, 2017. ISBN 9780804799744. The Human Body in the Age of Catastrophe: Brittleness, Integration, Science, and the Great War. With Todd Meyers. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2018. ISBN 9780226556451. The Invention of Prehistory: Empire, Violence, and Our Obsession with Human Origins. New York: Boni...
Aktiebolaget SKF Swedish: Svenska Kullagerfabriken, 'Swedish Ball Bearing Factory Ltd.' is a Swedish bearing and seal manufacturing company founded in Gothenburg, in 1907. The company manufactures and supplies bearings, seals, lubrication and lubrication systems, maintenance products, mechatronics products, power transmission products, condition monitoring systems and related services globally. SKF is the world's largest bearing manufacturer and employs 44,000 people in 108 manufacturing units. It has the largest industrial distributor network in the industry, with 17,000 distributor locations encompassing 130 countries. SKF is one of the largest companies in Sweden and among the 2,000 largest public companies in the world.  History   Invention of ball and roller bearings  The development of SKF is a significant part of the Swedish and global machine industry development. AB SKF was established in Gothenburg in 1907 with the initial capital and startup project for ball bearing manufacturing of Gamlestadens Fabriker AB, under the guidance of co-owners and members of the board Axel Carlander and Knut Johansson Mark, following the invention of the spherical ball bearing by engineer...
Euclid James Motorhead Sherwood was an American rock musician notable for being a member of the original version of Frank Zappa's band the Mothers of Invention, providing soprano, tenor and baritone saxophone, tambourine, vocals and vocal sound effects. He appeared on all the albums of the original Mothers line-up and the 'posthumous' releases Burnt Weeny Sandwich and Weasels Ripped My Flesh, as well as certain subsequent Zappa albums. He also appeared in the films 200 Motels, Video from Hell and Uncle Meat.  Biography  Sherwood was born in Arkansas City, Kansas. He and Zappa met in high school in 1956. Sherwood was in a class with Zappa's brother Bobby, who introduced the two after learning that Sherwood was a collector of blues records. Sherwood sat in with Zappa's first band, RB group The Black-Outs, at various performances, where he was often a highlight. Sherwood and Zappa subsequently played together in the Ontario, California rock'n'rollRB group The Omens. Sherwood also played with the Blackouts in 1957-1962 and The Village Inn Band in 1965. After Zappa's first marriage began to break up in 1964, he bought local producer Paul Buff's...
Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. was an American semiconductor company based in San Jose, California. It was founded in 1957 as a division of Fairchild Camera and Instrument by the traitorous eight who defected from Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory. It became a pioneer in the manufacturing of transistors and of integrated circuits. Schlumberger bought the firm in 1979 and sold it to National Semiconductor in 1987 Fairchild was spun off as an independent company again in 1997. In September 2016, Fairchild was acquired by ON Semiconductor. The company had locations in the United States in San Jose, California San Rafael, California South Portland, Maine West Jordan, Utah Puyallup, Washington and Mountaintop, Pennsylvania. Outside the US, it operated locations in Australia Singapore Bucheon, South Korea Penang, Malaysia Suzhou, China and Cebu, Philippines, among others.  History   1950s  In 1955, William Shockley founded Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory, funded by Beckman Instruments in Mountain View, California his plan was to develop a new type of 4-layer diode that would work faster and have more uses than then-current transistors. At first he attempted...
Edward Arthur Murphy was a Dunlop researcher credited with the invention of latex foam, first marketed as Dunlopillo.  Career  Murphy worked for Dunlop in Birmingham, UK. He is listed as an inventor on more than 40 patents.  Awards and Recognitions  1929 - Invented Dunlopillo latex, used as pad seats in public trams, trains, trolley buses and cockpits 1931 - Invented first latex mattress 1949 - Colwyn medal 1966 - Charles Goodyear Medal from the ACS Rubber Division  References 
Gianni Bettini was a gentleman inventor and a pioneer audiophile who invented several phonograph improvements. He is best known for having made some of the first recordings of the voices of several very famous singers and other celebrities of the 1890s. Few of these recordings have survived. Today he is most well known for his involvement in the recording of Benjamin Harrison's voice.  Life and career  Bettini was born in Novara, Italy, into a wealthy family. Not showing any academic ability, he left school and joined the Italian Army and became a cavalry lieutenant. Spending much of his time in Paris, he met American socialite Daisy Abbot. He followed her to New York, and married her there. In the 1890s, he was a New York socialite, living in the swanky Central Park South neighbourhood, now in the centre of Midtown on the edge of the Theater District. It was there that he kept his salon and operated his phonograph laboratory. Bettini made a number of high-end phonograph recordings that are highly sought after today. He invented the Micro-Recorder and Micro-Reproducer, recording and playback devices that improved the sound quality...
Colin Albert Murdoch was a New Zealand pharmacist and veterinarian who made a number of significant inventions, in particular the tranquilliser gun, the disposable hypodermic syringe and the child-proof medicine container. He had a total of 46 patents registered in his name.  Biographical background  Born in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 1929, to parents Mary Kathleen and Frank William James, Murdoch displayed a talent for chemistry at a very early age. Although he struggled through his schooling years with dyslexia, Murdoch already displayed an interest in both mechanical and technical skills. At the age of ten he successfully made gunpowder and came to the realization that an ignition could be caused by the mixing of certain nitrates and sulphuric acid. This discovery led the young Murdoch to build a successful firearm using a wick and a small asbestos-filled hammer. At the age of 13 he was awarded the Royal Humane Society Medal for saving a drowning man in the New Brighton estuary. Murdoch later came to outgrow his dyslexia and went on to study at The College of Pharmacy in Wellington. Following this, he completed a five-year apprenticeship and...
Mohamed Yalouh is a Moroccan inventor known for his works in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Engineering. He won the International Invention Innovation Competition in Canada in 2020. Yalouh's Hexa-Stroke Engine was named the invention with the best design and conceptualized representation. He won numerous other titles from innovation expositions and contests around the world, such as the International Innovation  Invention Competition in Taiwan. Yalouh was recently recognized on IFIA's list of notable inventors for his innovations.  Early life  Yalouh was born in Tetuan, Morocco and currently lives in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates where he attends the American Community School of Abu Dhabi. He co-founded Waind, a student-led research and development project aimed at exploring innovative solutions to global problems through Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Computer Vision. The startup aims to build a RD network of student communities worldwide to explore new hard-tech innovations.  Career  At 14 years old, Mohamed learned about different elements of Automotive and Mechanical Engineering. At 15 years old, he drafted his own patent application...
Todhri is a Unicode block containing letters for the Todhri alphabet, an 18th-century invention for writing the Albanian language by Theodhor Haxhifilipi.  History  The following Unicode-related documents record the purpose and process of defining specific characters in the Todhri block:  References 
Who Are the Brain Police? is a Frank Zappa song, performed by The Mothers of Invention, released on the Mothers' debut album, Freak Out!. It was released by Verve Records as a single in 1966. Zappa said the song had a religious theme, according to one source. Zappa wrote about the song on the Freak Out! liner notes: At five o'clock in the morning someone kept singing this in my mind and made me write it down. I will admit to being frightened when I finally played it out loud and sang the words. In a 1988 interview, Zappa added: A lot of people police their own brains. They're like citizen soldiers, so to speak. I've seen people who will willingly arrest, try and punish their own brains. Now that's really sad. That's vigilante brain policism. It's not even official, it's like self-imposed. ... It's hard to pin it down to one central agency when you realize that so many people are willing to do it to themselves. I mean, the people who want to become amateur brain police, their numbers grow every day - people who say to themselves, 'I couldn't possibly consider that', and then spank themselves for even getting that far. So, you don't even need to blame it on a central brain police...
Andrea Wulf is a German-British historian and writer who has written books, newspaper articles and book reviews.  Biography  Wulf was born in New Delhi, India, a child of German developmental aid workers, and spent the first five years of her life there, then grew up in Hamburg. She studied first at the University of Lneburg, and then design history at the Royal College of Art, London. Wulf is a public speaker, delivering lectures in the UK and USA. She was the guest speaker at the Kitt Peak National Observatory. Her book The Brother Gardeners was long-listed for the Samuel Johnson Prize and received a CBHL Annual Literature Award in 2010. In 2016, she won the Royal Society Insight Investment Science Book Prize and the Royal Geographical Society's Ness Award for her book The Invention of Nature. The book had already won the Costa Biography Award in 2015. Wulf was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 2018. She was a judge for the 2023 Baillie Gifford prize for non-fiction.  Chasing Venus: the Race to Measure the Heavens  Chasing Venus: the Race to Measure the Heavens is a non-fiction book about expeditions of scientists who set off around...
Hope Sandoval  The Warm Inventions are an American-Irish dream pop band comprising Hope Sandoval of Mazzy Star and Colm  Cosig of My Bloody Valentine. Their first studio album, Bavarian Fruit Bread, was released on 23 October 2001. Alan Browne, from Irish band Dirt Blue Gene, played bass and co-wrote several songs on the album. Through the Devil Softly was released on 29 September 2009, and was recorded with Dirt Blue Gene. Their third album, Until the Hunter, was released on 4 November 2016. Its first single, Isn't It True, was released on 7 vinyl as part of Record Store Day 2016. A second single, Let Me Get There featuring Kurt Vile, was released on 23 September. In a 2016 interview with Consequence of Sound,  Cosig explained how the musical composition differed from his and Hope's other bands, It's not that our other bands have restrictions, but there's a certain sound in those bands. Hope and I have a sound, but it's always changing and morphing into different things while still carrying a similar thread.  Discography   Studio albums   EPs   Singles   References   External links  Official website Official record label website
A steam hammer, also called a drop hammer, is an industrial power hammer driven by steam that is used for tasks such as shaping forgings and driving piles. Typically the hammer is attached to a piston that slides within a fixed cylinder, but in some designs the hammer is attached to a cylinder that slides along a fixed piston. The concept of the steam hammer was described by James Watt in 1784, but it was not until 1840 that the first working steam hammer was built to meet the needs of forging increasingly large iron or steel components. In 1843 there was an acrimonious dispute between Franois Bourdon of France and James Nasmyth of Britain over who had invented the machine. Bourdon had built the first working machine, but Nasmyth claimed it was built from a copy of his design. Steam hammers proved to be invaluable in many industrial processes. Technical improvements gave greater control over the force delivered, greater longevity, greater efficiency and greater power. A steam hammer built in 1891 by the Bethlehem Iron Company delivered a 125-ton blow. In the 20th century steam hammers were gradually displaced in forging by mechanical and hydraulic presses, but some are still in use...
A divisional patent application, also called divisional application or simply divisional, is a type of patent application that contains subject-matter from a previously filed application, the previously filed application being its parent application. While a divisional application is filed later than the parent application, it retains its parent's filing date, and will generally claim the same priority. Divisional applications are generally used in cases where the parent application may lack unity of invention that is, the parent application describes more than one invention and the applicant is required to split the parent into one or more divisional applications each claiming only a single invention. The ability to file divisional applications in cases of lack of unity of invention is required by Article 4G of the Paris Convention.  Practice by jurisdiction  The practice and procedure of filing a divisional patent application vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most countries, the filing of divisional applications is possible at least as long as the parent patent applications are pending. Since 2013, the European Patent Office rules are again in line with the current...
Norbert Rillieux was a Louisiana Creole inventor who was widely considered one of the earliest chemical engineers and noted for his pioneering invention of the multiple-effect evaporator. This invention was an important development in the growth of the sugar industry. Rillieux, a French-speaking Creole, was a cousin of the painter Edgar Degas.  Family  Norbert Rillieux was born into a prominent Creole family in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was the son of Vincent Rillieux, a white plantation owner and inventor, and his place, Constance Vivant, a free person of color. Norbert was the eldest of seven children. His siblings were: Barthelemy, Edmond, Marie Eugenie, Louis, Marie Eloise, and Cecile Virginie. Norbert's aunt on his father's side, Marie Celeste Rillieux, was the grandmother of painter Edgar Degas. His aunt on his mother's side, Eulalie Vivant, was the mother of Bernard Soulie, one of the wealthiest gens de couleur libre in Louisiana. One of Norbert's cousins was the blind writer Victor Ernest Rillieux.  Early life  As a Creole of color, Norbert Rillieux had access to education and privileges not available to lower-status free blacks...
Let's Make the Water Turn Black is a patter song which first appeared on the 1968 Mothers of Invention album We're Only in It for the Money and later on the 1995 compilation album Strictly Commercial. An uptempo instrumental version is featured on the 1991 live album Make a Jazz Noise Here.  Background  Let's Make The Water Turn Black tells the true story of brothers Ronald and Kenneth Williams referred to as Ronnie and Kenny respectively, neighbors of the song's composer Frank Zappa in the early 1960s, when he was living in Ontario, California. It says that while their father, known as Daddy Dinky , was away at work selling lamps and chairs to San Ber'dino squares and while their mother , worked feeding all the boys at Ed's Caf , the brothers occupied their after-school time with such activities as igniting each other's flatulence. In the original release, a reference to their mother in her apron and her pad was cut from the record although the reference was about an order pad, a record executive thought it was a veiled reference to a sanitary napkin. Further references can be found in the opening line of...
The elephant clock was a model of water clock invented by the medieval Islamic engineer Ismail al-Jazari . Its design was detailed in his book, The Book of Knowledge of Ingenious Mechanical Devices.  Mechanism  The timing mechanism is based on a water-filled basin hidden inside the elephant. In the bucket is a deep bowl floating in the water, but with a small hole in the centre. The bowl takes half an hour to fill through this hole. In the process of sinking, the bowl pulls a string attached to a see-saw mechanism in the tower on top of the elephant. This releases a ball that drops into the mouth of a serpent, causing the serpent to tip forward, which pulls the sunken bowl out of the water via strings. At the same time, a system of strings causes a figure in the tower to raise either the left or right hand and the mahout to hit a drum. This indicates a half or full hour. Next, the snake tips back. The cycle then repeats, as long as balls remain in the upper reservoir to power the emptying of the bowl.  Automaton  In the mechanism, a humanoid automaton strikes the cymbal and a mechanical bird chirps, as in the cuckoo clock.  Passage... 
Robert Tienwen Chien Chinese:  November 20, 1931 - December 8, 1983 was an American computer scientist who was the director of the Coordinated Science Laboratory at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Chein was known for his invention of the Chien search.  Biography  Robert Tienwen Chien was born in Wuxi, Jiangsu, China as the youngest of eight children, and emigrated to the United States in 1952 to continue his technical studies, He received his B.S. in electrical engineering in 1954 from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, and continued graduate studies at Illinois, receiving his A.M in Mathematics in 1957, and his Ph.D. in electrical engineering in 1958. He worked as a research scientist at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, where he rose to the position of Group Manager. While at IBM, he also taught as an adjunct professor at Columbia University, and authored several books on coding theory. In 1964, he left IBM to join the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign as an associate professor in electrical engineering, rising to the rank of full professor in 1966. In 1969, he served as the E. A. Guillemin Visiting Professor at the University of Maryland...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 699 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Digital asset management and the implementation of its use as a computer application is required in the collection of digital assets to ensure that the owner, and possibly their delegates, can perform operations on the data files.  Terminology  The term media asset management may be used in reference to Digital Asset Management when applied to the sub-set of digital objects commonly considered media, namely audio recordings, photos, and videos. Any editing process that involves media, especially video, can make use of a MAM to access media components to be edited together or combined with a live feed in a fluent manner. A MAM typically offers at least one searchable index of the images, audio, and videos it contains, constructed from metadata harvested from the images using pattern recognition, or input manually. Digital asset management may focus on the electronic management of any form of a digitally stored piece of information. DAM is certainly strategic, while MAM is almost always tactical. Both asset management primarily reflect long-term stored content that is used for archiving, preservation, and most notably reuse.  Difference between a Digital Asset... 
Perforce Software, Inc. is an American developer of software used for developing and running applications, including version control software, web-based repository management, developer collaboration, application lifecycle management, web application servers, debugging tools, platform automation, and agile planning software. The company is based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and is equally owned by private equity firms Clearlake Capital and Francisco Partners.  History  Perforce was founded in 1995 in Alameda, California by Christopher Seiwald, a software developer and computer science graduate from UC Berkeley. Its first product was also called Perforce, and was a version control system allowing companies to collaborate on large software projects by keeping track of changes to both the source code and binary files. In June 2013, the company released P4 Code Review , a tool for developers working in different geographic areas to collaborate on code review. In June 2014, the company released a version of its Perforce versioning engine, then known as P4D, which supported concurrency. In March 2015, the company renamed its product to Perforce Helix, which now supported...
In configuration management, a baseline is an agreed description of the attributes of a product, at a point in time, which serves as a basis for defining change. A change is a movement from this baseline state to a next state. The identification of significant changes from the baseline state is the central purpose of baseline identification. Typically, significant states are those that receive a formal approval status, either explicitly or implicitly. An approval status may be attributed to individual items, when a prior definition for that status has been established by project leaders, or signified by mere association to a particular established baseline. Nevertheless, this approval status is usually recognized publicly. A baseline may be established for the singular purpose of marking an approved configuration item, e.g. a project plan that has been signed off for execution. Associating multiple configuration items to such a baseline indicates those items as also being approved. Baselines may also be used to mark milestones. A baseline may refer to a single work product, or a set of work products that can be used as a logical basis for comparison. Most baselines are established at...
The Distributed Concurrent Versions System was a distributed revision control system that enables software developers working on locally distributed sites to efficiently collaborate on a software project. DCVS was based on the well known version control system Concurrent Versions System. The code was freely distributable under the GNU and BSD style licenses. The project was terminated sometime before late 2023.  Motivation  CVS is based on a pure centralistic organizational model and offers very little offline support. Almost all version control operations require direct access to the repository. Therefore, worldwide distributed software development efforts face heavy performance problems when using CVS. DCVS tackles this issue by distributing the central CVS repository on many sites.  Features  DCVS provides all CVS functionality. But unlike CVS a DCVS system may comprise an arbitrary number of geographically distributed repositories whose contents are kept equal in the background by an extended version of CVSup, a program developed by John D. Polstra. The combination of DCVS repository, extended CVSup server and DCVS server program will be called DCVS server in the...
In the field of computer science, an atomic commit is an operation that applies a set of distinct changes as a single operation. If the changes are applied, then the atomic commit is said to have succeeded. If there is a failure before the atomic commit can be completed, then all of the changes completed in the atomic commit are reversed. This ensures that the system is always left in a consistent state. The other key property of isolation comes from their nature as atomic operations. Isolation ensures that only one atomic commit is processed at a time. The most common uses of atomic commits are in database systems and version control systems. The problem with atomic commits is that they require coordination between multiple systems. As computer networks are unreliable services, this means no algorithm can coordinate with all systems as proven in the Two Generals Problem. As databases become more and more distributed, this coordination will increase the difficulty of making truly atomic commits.  Usage  Atomic commits are essential for multi-step updates to data. This can be clearly shown in a simple example of a money transfer between two checking accounts. This example is complicated...
In software engineering, a schema migration also database migration, database change management refers to the management of version-controlled, incremental and sometimes reversible changes to relational database schemas. A schema migration is performed on a database whenever it is necessary to update or revert that database's schema to some newer or older version. Migrations are performed programmatically by using a schema migration tool. When invoked with a specified desired schema version, the tool automates the successive application or reversal of an appropriate sequence of schema changes until it is brought to the desired state. Most schema migration tools aim to minimize the impact of schema changes on any existing data in the database. Despite this, preservation of data in general is not guaranteed because schema changes such as the deletion of a database column can destroy data i.e. all values stored under that column for all rows in that table are deleted. Instead, the tools help to preserve the meaning of the data or to reorganize existing data to meet new requirements. Since meaning of the data often cannot be encoded, the configuration of the tools usually needs manual...
rPath, Inc. was a technology company based in Raleigh, North Carolina, that developed technology to automate the process of constructing , deploying, and updating software. rPath modeled and managed components and dependencies under version control. It acted as a model-driven and version-controlled repository, as well as a software distribution hub. In November 2012, rPath was acquired by SAS Institute. Shortly after the acquisition, rPath Linux was discontinued.  History  rPath was founded in April 2005, and was originally known for packaging applications as virtual appliances for its independent software vendors and end-user customers. It was co-founded by Erik Troan, co-author of Red Hat Package Manager , a popular Linux package management system. Troan had left Red Hat in 2004 to create a company called Specifix. The first CEO was Bill Marshall. Original investors were North Bridge Venture Partners and General Catalyst Partners, with 6.4 million in funding disclosed in September 2005. A 9.1 million investment in February 2007 including a new investor Wakefield Group was disclosed. A 10 million investment was disclosed on June 24, 2008. A 7 million...
TeamCity is a build management and continuous integrationcontinuous delivery server developed by JetBrains. First released on October 2, 2006, TeamCity is designed to help development teams automate the build, test, and deployment processes for software projects across multiple platforms and technologies. TeamCity operates under a freemium licensing model, offering a free tier with up to 100 build configurations and three Build Agent licenses, while open-source projects can request completely free licenses. Enterprise features require paid licensing.  Overview  TeamCity serves as a centralized platform for DevOps practices, enabling teams to implement continuous integration and continuous delivery workflows. The system monitors version control systems for changes and automatically triggers builds, tests, and deployments based on configurable rules and triggers. Its web-based interface provides comprehensive visibility into build status, test results, code quality metrics, and deployment pipelines. The platform is built using Java and runs as a server application that can be deployed on-premises or in cloud environments. TeamCity supports distributed build processing through...
lakeFS is an open-source data version control system for managing data stored in object storage. It provides Git-like operations such as branching, committing, merging, and reverting for large-scale data stored in systems including Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage, as well as other S3-compatible object storage platforms. lakeFS is used in data engineering and machine learning workflows to manage changes to data, support reproducibility, and enable data governance across data lakes. The software is available as an open-source project, as well as in enterprise and managed service offerings, including lakeFS Cloud.  History  lakeFS was created in 2020 by Einat Orr and Oz Katz at Treeverse. Its first public release, version 0.8.1, appeared in August 2020 and introduced Git-style operations with support for Amazon S3. In 2021, Treeverse raised 23 million in a Series A funding round led by Dell Technologies Capital, Norwest Venture Partners, and Zeev Ventures. The same year, lakeFS was included in InfoWorld's Best of Open Source Software awards. In June 2022, Treeverse introduced lakeFS Cloud, a managed service providing hosted lakeFS deployments...
pass is a password manager inspired by the Unix philosophy. It has a command-line interface, and uses GnuPG for encryption and decryption of stored passwords. The passwords are encrypted and stored in separate files, and can be organized via the operating system's filesystem. A password file can contain additional text, such as the username, the email address, comments, or anything the user would like, since the password files are nothing more than encrypted text files. There are several graphical user interfaces available, such as QtPass for LinuxWindowsMacOS or Password Store for Android operating systems. A syncing system is not implemented, but syncing can be achieved by using the Git version control system. The built in Git functionality also allows for automated version history tracking of the password store.  Vulnerabilities  In June 2018, pass was found to be vulnerable to a variant of the SigSpoof attack. The issue was patched the same day that the vulnerability was disclosed.  See also  List of password managers  References   External links  Official website
Open-source software is computer software whose source code is publicly available, allowing users to use, study, modify, and distribute it - in contrast with proprietary software. These abilities are typically granted through open licenses or, more rarely, by dedication to the public domain. The development of open-source software can be based on open collaboration, a decentralized model of production. It is commonly defined according to the Open Source Definition of the Open Source Initiative, but the precise meaning of open source remains a source of conflicts. Open-source software offers a range of benefits, but also presents specific risks and challenges. It can provide improved accessibility through lower and shared costs, greater adaptability through customization, transparency with auditable code, better interoperability via open standards, and independence from vendor lock-in, among others. Due to its ubiquity in modern software, open-source software raises major cybersecurity concerns, as well as significant maintenance challenges. Open-source software has become the backbone of the global digital infrastructure, powering domains such as web servers, cloud...
Spider-Man: No Way Home is a 2021 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man. Produced by Columbia Pictures, Marvel Studios, and Pascal Pictures, and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing, it is the sequel to Spider-Man: Homecoming and Spider-Man: Far From Home , and the 27th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe . The film was directed by Jon Watts, written by Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers, and stars Tom Holland as Peter Parker  Spider-Man alongside Zendaya, Benedict Cumberbatch, Jacob Batalon, Jon Favreau, Jamie Foxx, Willem Dafoe, Alfred Molina, Benedict Wong, Tony Revolori, Marisa Tomei, Andrew Garfield, and Tobey Maguire. In the film, Peter asks Dr. Stephen Strange to use magic to make his identity as Spider-Man a secret again after it was revealed to the world at the end of Far From Home. When the spell goes wrong due to Peter's actions, the multiverse is broken open and several visitors from alternate realities are brought into Peter's universe. A third MCU Spider-Man film was planned during the production of Homecoming in 2017. Negotiations between Sony and Marvel Studios to alter their deal-in which they produce...
In version control software, a changeset is a set of alterations packaged together, along with meta-information about the alterations. A changeset describes the exact differences between two successive versions in the version control system's repository of changes. Changesets are typically treated as an atomic unit, an indivisible set, by version control systems. This is one synchronization model.  Terminology  In the Git version control system a changeset is called a commit, not to be confused with the commit operation that is used to commit a changeset to a repository. Other version control systems also use other names to refer to changesets, for example Darcs calls them patches, while Pijul refers to them as changes.  Metadata  Version control systems attach metadata to changesets. Typical metadata includes a description provided by the programmer , the name of the author, the date of the commit, etc. Unique identifiers are an important part of the metadata which version control systems attach to changesets. Centralized version control systems, such as Subversion...
Minecraft is a sandbox video game developed and published by the Swedish company Mojang Studios. Following its initial public alpha release as an early access title in 2009, it was formally released in November 2011 for personal computers. The game has since been ported to numerous platforms, including mobile devices and various video game consoles. In Minecraft, players explore a procedurally generated world with virtually infinite terrain made up of three-dimensional blocks represented as voxels. They can discover and extract raw materials, craft tools and items, build structures, fight hostile mobs, and cooperate with or compete against other players in multiplayer. In addition, the game's large community offers a wide variety of user-generated content, such as modifications, servers, player skins, texture packs, and custom maps, which add new game mechanics and possibilities. Originally created by Markus Notch Persson using the Java programming language, Jens Jeb Bergensten was handed control over the game's development following its full release. In November 2014, Mojang and the Minecraft intellectual property were purchased by Microsoft for US2.5 billion box Game Studios...
Luis Tud Pomar was a Spanish footballer who played as a defender for Barcelona between 1912 and 1918, winning one Copa del Rey in 1913, and one Catalan Championship in 1916. He also worked as a referee in the 1920s.  Playing career  Born in Barcelona on 26 May 1894, Tud began his football career at his hometown club Barcelona in late 1911, aged 15, making his debut with the first team on 8 December, in a friendly against Espanya de Barcelona, helping his side to a 4-0 win. However, his official competitive debut came two years later, on 15 June 1913, helping his side to a resounding 11-1 victory over Catal in a small tournament called Copa Espanya. Tud had his next competitive match on 6 December 1915, in the Catalan Championship, helping his side to a 1-0 win over Aven by playing this match, he was officially a member of the Bara squad that won that title. He also won the Copa del Rey in 1913. In total, he played 66 matches for Bara, but only three were official.  Later life  Tud was a member of the Bara board between May 1933 and July 1934. Twelve years later, in September 1946, he founded the Agrupaci Bara Jugadors Bara Players...
ke Persson was a Swedish bebop jazz trombonist.  Biography  Persson was born in Hssleholm, southern Sweden and started his music career by playing valve trumpet in school. Persson, known as the Comet , moved to Stockholm in 1951, where he played in Simon Brehm's quintet . Following this Persson worked with Arne Domnrus, Hacke Bjrksten, Harry Arnold's Radio Band , Quincy Jones, Lars Gullin, the RIAS Berlin band , and the Kenny Clarke-Francy Boland Big Band . Persson played with many American musicians, including George Wallington, Roy Haynes, Benny Bailey, Count Basie, Duke Ellington, and Dizzy Gillespie. He led several sessions for labels such as Metronome, Philips, and EmArcy in the 1950s. Persson drowned in the Djurgrden canal in central Stockholm in February 1975 he had driven his car into the canal either accidentally or deliberately. There is a book trombonist ke Persson written by author Bo Carlsson.  Discography  With Benny Bailey Quincy - Here We Come - also released as The Music of Quincy Jones With Count Basie Basie in Sweden Roulette...
Sydenham  Dulwich Girls is a private day school for 4- to 18-year-old girls located in London, England. Sydenham  Dulwich Girls was founded by the Girls' Public Day School Trust in 1887. Since then, the original school roll of 20 pupils has grown to 724 girls. The school is separated into the senior and junior schools, each with a separate site on Westwood Hill in Sydenham. The school changed its name from Sydenham High School to Sydenham  Dulwich Girls in 2026 to coincide with the opening of its new Sixth Form, The Foundry, built as an extension to the original 1889 stable block, and the innovation and maker spaces forming the new entrance building, Fairlight, named after one of the school's original buildings.  History  The school was created by the Girls' Public Day School Trust in 1887 with an initial school roll of twenty and Ms I Thomas as the founding head. In 1901 the mathematics graduate Helen Sheldon became the school's second head teacher. She created the school's first orchestra. She introduced the idea of senior girls becoming prefects and she divided the school into houses. Sheldon's family had left her money and she used some of this to offer her school interest...
The Arboretum de Jouou , also known as the Arboretum Henri Gaussen, is an arboretum located on the Route de l'Hospice de France in Bagnres-de-Luchon, Haute-Garonne, Midi-Pyrnes, France. It opens daily. The arboretum was created 1921-1928 by Professor Henri Gaussen, and continues to be managed by the Jardin botanique Henri Gaussen of the Universit Paul Sabatier in Toulouse. It contains 250 conifer taxa from around the world, of which 186 are naturally occurring and 64 hybrids and cultivars, organized systematically with American species to the west, and Mediterranean, central Europe, and Asia to the east. The garden is arranged in two sections: The botanical collection, in which each conifer species is represented by four individuals, containing over 100 species, mostly from North America and Eurasia. The collection of breeds and varieties, which compares side-by-side specimens of the same species but of different geographic origin. The arboretum has been recognized by the Conservatoire des Collections Vgtales Spcialises for its conifer collection.  See also  List of botanical gardens in France  References  F. Flous and H. Gaussen, L'Arboretum...
The Cat Returns is a 2002 Japanese anime fantasy film directed by Hiroyuki Morita from a screenplay by Reiko Yoshida, based on the 2002 manga Baron the Cat by Aoi Hiiragi. It was animated by Studio Ghibli for Tokuma Shoten, Nippon Television Network, Hakuhodo, Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Mitsubishi and Toho, and distributed by the latter company. It stars Chizuru Ikewaki, Yoshihiko Hakamada, Tetsu Watanabe, Yosuke Saito, Aki Maeda and Tetsur Tamba. This is Hiroyuki Morita's first and only film as director for Studio Ghibli. It is a spin-off of Whisper of the Heart. It was theatrically released in Japan on July 20, 2002, through Toho and in 2005 in the United States through Walt Disney Home Entertainment. It received generally favourable reviews, and won the Excellence Prize at the 2002 Japan Media Arts Festival. GKIDS re-issued the film on Blu-ray and DVD on January 16, 2018, under a new deal with Studio Ghibli.  Plot  Haru Yoshioka is a shy but noble high school student who has a suppressed ability to talk with cats. One day, she saves a cat from being hit by a truck on a busy road. The cat she saved turns out to be Lune, Prince of the Cat Kingdom. As thanks, the cats give...
Christopher O'Hare is a Scottish former middle-distance runner who competes in the 1500 metres. He has represented Scotland at the 2014 Commonwealth Games and Great Britain at the 2016 Olympic Games.  Personal life  O'Hare was born and brought up in West Linton and attended Peebles High School. He subsequently completed a degree in sports science at the University of Tulsa in the United States, together with his sister Olivia. His younger brother Dominic competed in middle-distance running in Scotland. O'Hare is married and is a fan of Celtic FC.  Running career  O'Hare was first recruited by University of Tulsa, where he specialized in the 800 m, 1500 m, and mile events. At the 2011 NCAA DI Indoor Track  Field Championships, O'Hare was runner-up in the men's mile behind Miles Batty from BYU. O'Hare won the Mile at the NCAA Men's Division I Indoor Track and Field Championships 2012 with a time of 4:01.66 O'Hare was selected for the 1500 m at the 2013 IAAF World Athletics Championships in Moscow after he became the first Scottish athlete in over 35 years to top the UK rankings at the distance. At the Worlds he qualified for the final, where he finished...
Rolf Juell Gleditsch was a Norwegian painter. He was born in Vardal Municipality. He was a second cousin of Odd, Ellen, Kristian and Henry Gleditsch, and a first cousin once removed of Kristen Gran Gleditsch and Jens Gran Gleditsch. He studied in Stockholm from 1910 to 1913 and in Paris under Othon Friesz from 1919 to 1920. His main style was landscape paintings. He is represented in the National Gallery of Norway.  References 
Marie-Laure de Lorenzi is a French professional golfer. She is known by her married name Marie-Laure Taya. She won 19 tournaments in a span of eleven seasons on the Ladies European Tour, putting her third, later tied third, on the all-time list of number of wins on the tour.  Early life and amateur career  In 1961, De Lorenzi was born. She played for her country in the European Lady Junior's Team Championship, for players up to the age of 21, from she was 14 years old in 1975 until 1982 and was on the winning team in 1979. She won individually in 1981. She also represented her country four times at the European Ladies' Team Championship and four times at the Espirito Santo Trophy.  Professional career  In 1987, De Lorenzi joined the Ladies European Tour. She won the Order of Merit in 1988 and 1989. In those two years, when she led the rankings, she finished first or second 17 times, when the tour schedules included 46 individual tournaments over the two seasons. That means that she finished first or second in 37 of all scheduled tournaments over two full seasons on the tour. She finished third, after tying the lead after the third round,...
The Queen's Cup is a golf tournament on the Asian Tour and is played in Thailand. The inaugural tournament was held in 2009 at the Santiburi Samui Country Club and the prize fund was US300,000. Chinnarat Phadungsil won the tournament and won 47,550. The event was played at Santiburi Samui Country Club until 2018. There were two events in 2018. An event was held at Phoenix Gold Golf and Country Club in late June and early July and a second event was held later in the season at the Legacy Golf Club, in late November and early December.  Winners   External links  Coverage on Asian Tour's official site
Just the Ticket is a 1998 American drama film directed by Richard Wenk. It stars Andy Garca and Andie MacDowell. Garcia was also the producer. The film was originally titled A Piece of Cake.  Plot  Gary Starke, desperate to get his girlfriend Linda back, goes to confession to seek guidance but doesn't get the help he seeks. He is a New York City ticket scalper who works the street. Linda won't take his calls, so Gary shows up at her sales job. He earns a dinner date with her by selling a 60-inch TV to someone who was only window shopping. Gary plans to make one last big score: to win Linda back and straighten out his life. Believing his chance rests on an opportunity to scalp a large stack of tickets to see the Pope at Yankee Stadium. Gary comes up against 'Casino', a Florida scalper who undercuts him. Meanwhile, at Linda's culinary course a New York Times food critic asks her to cater an upscale dinner party after trying her dish. So, instead of their date, Gary jumps in to help. She's way underpaid for the meal at the upperclass party, so they retaliate by ruining the dishes. That evening, they spend the night together. The next day Gary is off seeking Pope tickets. He and...
Isaac Bickerstaff Esq was a pseudonym used by Jonathan Swift as part of a hoax to predict the death of then-famous Almanac-maker and astrologer John Partridge. All Fools' Day was Swift's favourite holiday, and he often used this day to aim his satirical wit at non-believers in an attempt to make sin and folly bleed. Disgruntled by Partridge's sarcastic attack about the infallible Church written in his 1708 issue of Merlinus Almanac, Swift projected three letters and a eulogy as an elaborate plan to predict Partridge's infallible death on 29 March, the anniversary of the famous 1652 Black Monday eclipse, widely seen as discrediting to astrology. The first of the three letters, Predictions for the Year 1708, published in January 1708, predicts, among other things, the death of Partridge by a raging fever. In the second letter, The Accomplishment of the First of Mr. Bickerstaff's Predictions, published in March 1708, Swift writes not as Bickerstaff but as a man employed in the Revenue, and confirms the imaginary Bickerstaff's prediction. To accompany The Accomplishments, Swift also published an elegy for Partridge in which, typical...
The 2001 Men's Hockey Champions Trophy was the 23rd edition of the Hockey Champions Trophy men's field hockey tournament. It was reorganised to take place in Rotterdam, Netherlands on the scheduled dates of 3-11 November 2001. The event will take place at HC Rotterdam's brand new NLG 24 million, 8,000-seating facility, which opened in August and was the first world level event at the venue.  Squads   Results  All times are Central European Time  Pool   Classification   Fifth and sixth place   Third and fourth place   Final   Awards   Final standings  Germany Australia Netherlands Pakistan England South Korea  External links  Official FIH website
Nancy Lenkeith a.k.a. Nancy Lenkeith Horneffer 9 May 1922 - 11 Aug 2015 was an American writer. She worked for Voice of America radio. She is known for her testimony before US Senator Joseph McCarthy about dismissal from government service, defending Abraham Lincoln, reading a favorable review of Whittaker Chambers' 1952 memoir Witness, and refusing to live with her supervisor in a commune.  Early life  Lenkeith was born in London, United Kingdom, circa 1922. In 1942, she graduated from Barnard College. She obtained a doctorate in philosophy. She taught at Queens College in Brooklyn, New York, for two years.  Career  In December 1952, Nancy Lenkeith joined Voice of America. She was a scriptwriter of VOA broadcasts in French. Her supervisor fired her after she broadcast a review favorable to Whittaker Chambers' book, Witness. Roy Cohn solicited from her information that her superior had denounced Abraham Lincoln: That damn Lincoln! Why do we have to talk about him again? Senate subcommittee chairman Joseph McCarthy refused to let her relate details about a proposition received from Troup Mathews, acting head of the VOA's French section. Lenkeith testified that she...
William Wells was an English cricketer active from 1904 to 1926 who played for Northamptonshire .  Biography  He was born in Daventry, Northamptonshire on 14 March 1881 and died there on 18 March 1939, aged 58. Wells appeared in 269 first-class matches as a righthanded batsman who bowled right arm fast medium pace. He scored 6,324 runs with a highest score of 119, one of two centuries, and took 751 wickets with a best performance of eight for 35.  Notes 
Mpulungu District is a district of Zambia, located in Northern Province. The capital lies at Mpulungu. As of the 2022 Zambian Census, the district had a population of 153,564 people.  Climate  Mpulungu's altitude ranges from 800 to 1,250 meters above sea level, with some areas, such as the Iyendwe Valley, sitting at lower elevations. The district experiences warm temperatures, with averages ranging between 24C and 34C. The hottest period occurs between October and December, when temperatures can reach 29C. Cooler temperatures are recorded from June to July, with minimum temperatures dropping to 20C. 4 Mpulungu falls within the agro-ecological zone that receives annual rainfall ranging from 1,000 to 1,200 mm, and its climate is classified as tropical. The district has distinct seasons: cool and dry from May to July, dry and hot from August to October, and wet and hot from November to April.  References 
Exacum socotranum is a species of flowering plant in the family Gentianaceae. It is an annual endemic to the island of Socotra in Yemen. It grows near seepages on vertical cliffs of the island's southwestern limestone escarpment. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, the species is currently critically endangered due to water diversion and housing development in its habitat.  References 
Jure Brkljaa is a Croatian singer. He is known for placing fourth in season one of The Voice Hrvatska.  Early life  Brkljaa was born in Zadar, Croatia on 21 September 1994.  Music career  Starting 31 January 2015, Jure Brkljaa appeared as a contestant on the first season of the reality talent show The Voice Hrvatska. On the first show, Brkljaa sang Oliver Dragojevi's song Brod u boci. All four judges, Jacques Houdek, Indira Levak, Tony Cetinski and Ivan Deak turned around with Levak, Cetinski and Deak giving him a standing ovation. Brkljaa eventually chose Tony Cetinski as his coach. On 21 February 2015, in the Battle Round, Brkljaa's coach Cetinski put him against Romana Lali Pejkovi choosing that they both sing Stine, originally by Oliver Dragojevi. As a result, Cetinski picked him to continue his journey into the live shows. On 28 March 2015, Brkljaa sang Indexi's song Bacila je sve niz rijeku. During the Top 16, Brkljaa sang a rendition of Jo i danas zamirie trenja. In the Top 12, he sang Zlatan Stipii Gibonni's Posoljeni zrak i razlivena tinta. At the semi-final on 18 April 2015, Brkljaa performed Mio Kova's Ti si...
The Tatra T813 was a truck produced in Czechoslovakia by the Tatra company. It was produced from 1967 to 1982. The basic representative of this series was a military version of the 88 Kolos , which was able to pull trailers up to a total weight of 100 tons. Tatra also produced a civilian version in either 66 or 44. After fifteen years of production, 11,751 vehicles were built in all modifications. Many units were exported to the USSR, East Germany, Romania and India.  History  The prototype, made of Tatra 138 parts, was built in 1960. It had permanent 44 all-wheel-drive. After trials, the designers decided to develop and expand the concept to an 88 all-wheel-drive all-terrain vehicle. The basis of the design became the modular chassis of the Tatra 813. In 1983, it was succeeded by the Tatra T815.  Design and technology  A tubular backbone construction was chosen for the T813. The advantages of the central load carrying backbone tube are the high torsional and bending stiffness protecting the truck's body from forces caused by the payload, plus it houses all important parts of the drivetrain and allows the modular construction so designers and customers can choose...
The Pulaski-also known as the fire axe-is a specialty hand tool used in fighting fires, particularly wildfires, which combines an axe and an adze in one head. Similar to a cutter mattock, it has a rigid handle of wood, plastic, or fiberglass. The Pulaski was developed for constructing firebreaks, able to both dig soil and chop wood. It is also well adapted for trail construction, and can be used for gardening and other outdoor work for general excavation and digging holes in root-bound or hard soil. The invention of the Pulaski is credited to Ed Pulaski, an assistant ranger with the United States Forest Service in 1911. Similar tools were introduced in 1876 by the Collins Tool Company. A tool that serves the same purpose was used in the Alps for over 300 years for planting trees or the dolabra in ancient Rome. Pulaski was famous for taking action to save the lives of a crew of 45 firefighters during Idaho's Great Fire of 1910. His invention of a combination axe and adze may have been a result of the disaster, as he saw the need for better firefighting tools. Pulaski further refined the tool by 1913, and it came into use in the Rocky Mountain region...
Innovation is the practical implementation of ideas that result in the creation or improvements of goods or services. ISO TC 279 in the standard ISO 56000:2020 defines innovation as a new or changed entity, realizing or redistributing value. Others have different definitions a common element in the definitions is a focus on newness, improvement, and spread of ideas or technologies . Innovation often takes place through the development of more-effective products, processes, services, technologies, art works or business models that innovators make available to markets, governments, and society. Innovation is related to, but not the same as, invention: innovation is more apt to involve the practical implementation of an invention to make a meaningful impact in a market or society. Not all innovations require a new invention. Technical innovation often manifests itself through the engineering process when the problem being solved is of a technical or scientific nature. The opposite of innovation is exnovation.  Definition  Surveys of the literature on innovation have found a variety of definitions. In 2009, Baregheh et al...
Hypertext is text displayed on a computer display or other electronic devices with references to other text that the reader can immediately access. Hypertext documents are interconnected by hyperlinks, which are typically activated by a mouse click, keypress set, or screen touch. Apart from text, the term hypertext is also used to describe tables, images, and other presentational materials with integrated hyperlinks. Hypertext is one of the key underlying concepts of the World Wide Web, where Web pages are often written in the Hypertext Markup Language . As implemented on the Web, hypertext enables the easy-to-use publication of information over the Internet.  Etymology  'Hypertext' is a recent coinage. 'Hyper-' is used in the mathematical sense of extension and generality rather than the medical sense of 'excessive' . There is no implication about size- a hypertext could contain only 500 words or so. 'Hyper-' refers to structure and not size. The English prefix hyper- comes from the Greek prefix - and means over or beyond it has a common origin with the prefix super- which comes from...
A patent application is a request pending at a patent office for the grant of a patent for an invention described in the patent specification and a set of one or more claims stated in a formal document, including necessary official forms and related correspondence. It is the combination of the document and its processing within the administrative and legal framework of the patent office. To obtain the grant of a patent, a person, either legal or natural, must file an application at a patent office with the jurisdiction to grant a patent in the geographic area over which coverage is required. This is often a national patent office, but may be a regional body, such as the European Patent Office. Once the patent specification complies with the laws of the office concerned, a patent may be granted for the invention described and claimed by the specification. The process of negotiating or arguing with a patent office for the grant of a patent, and interaction with a patent office with regard to a patent after its grant, is known as patent prosecution. Patent prosecution is distinct from patent litigation which relates to legal proceedings for infringement of a patent after it is granted...
Patents are legal instruments intended to encourage innovation by providing a limited monopoly to the inventor in return for the disclosure of the invention. The underlying assumption is that innovation is encouraged because an inventor can secure exclusive rights and, therefore, a higher probability of financial rewards for their product in the marketplace or the opportunity to profit from licensing the rights to others. The publication of the invention is mandatory to get a patent. Keeping the same invention as a trade secret rather than disclosing it in a patent publication, for some inventions, could prove valuable well beyond the limited time of any patent term but at the risk of unpermitted disclosure or congenial invention by a third party.  Costs, benefits, risks of the patent system to the public  The patent system is designed to encourage innovation. This is because patents, by conferring rights on the owner to exclude competitors from the market, presumably offer the incentive for people to study new technology. In some fields, particularly pharmaceuticals, it is also argued that the monopoly of the patent in the market allows the owner to recover...
Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta was an Italian chemist and physicist who was a pioneer of electricity and power, and is credited as the inventor of the electric battery and the discoverer of methane. He invented the voltaic pile in 1799, and reported the results of his experiments in a two-part letter to the president of the Royal Society in London, which was published in 1800. With this invention, Volta proved that electricity could be generated chemically and debunked the prevalent theory that electricity was generated solely by living beings. Volta's invention sparked a great amount of scientific excitement and led others to conduct similar experiments, which eventually led to the development of the field of electrochemistry. Volta drew admiration from Napoleon Bonaparte for his invention, and was invited to the Institute of France to demonstrate his invention to the members of the institute. Throughout his life, Volta enjoyed a certain amount of closeness with the emperor who conferred upon him numerous honours. Volta held the chair of experimental physics at the University of Pavia for nearly 40 years and was widely idolised by his...
Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 52 U.S. 248 , was a United States Supreme Court decision credited with introducing into United States patent law the concept of non-obviousness as a patentability requirement, as well as stating the applicable legal standard for determining its presence or absence in a claimed invention. The test of the Hotchkiss case may be described as: whether, at the time the claimed invention was made, the differences between the features of the claimed invention and the things that persons skilled in the relevant art already knew were such that it would have been within the level of skill of an ordinary artisan in that art to combine those known features to make the claimed invention. More specifically, as stated in the Hotchkiss opinion, itself: Unless more ingenuity and skill . . . were required . . . than were possessed by an ordinary mechanic acquainted with the business, there was an absence of that degree of skill and ingenuity which constitute essential elements of every invention. In other words, the improvement is the work of the skillful mechanic, not that of the inventor.  Background  John G. Hotchkiss, John A. Davenport, and John W. Quincy...
Ancient Inventions was a BBC historical documentary series released in 1998. It was presented by former Monty Python member Terry Jones and looked at great inventions of the ancient world. The series is split into 3 episodes, namely City Life, Sex and Love, and War and Conflicts, all around 50 min long. It was produced by Phil Grabsky of Seventh Art.  References   External links  Ancient Inventions at IMDb Official dvd release
Prior art also known as state of the art or background art is a concept in patent law used to determine the patentability of an invention, in particular whether an invention meets the novelty and the inventive step or non-obviousness criteria for patentability. In most systems of patent law, prior art is generally defined as anything that is made available, or disclosed, to the public that might be relevant to a patent's claim before the effective filing date of a patent application for an invention. However, notable differences exist in how prior art is specifically defined under different national, regional, and international patent systems. The prior art is evaluated by patent offices as part of the patent granting process in what is called substantive examination of a patent application in order to determine whether an invention claimed in the patent application meets the novelty and inventive step or non-obviousness criteria for patentability. It may also be considered by patent offices or courts in opposition or invalidity proceedings. Patents disclose to society how an invention is practiced, in return for the right to exclude others from manufacturing...
Sue Monk Kidd is an American writer from Sylvester, Georgia. She is best known for her historical novels, which frequently deal with themes of race, feminism, and religion and include The Secret Life of Bees and The Book of Longings.  Early life and education  Kidd was born and raised in Sylvester, Georgia. In 1970, she graduated from Texas Christian University with a bachelor of science degree in nursing. She worked as a nursing instructor at the Medical College of Georgia. Kidd was influenced by the writings of Thomas Merton. She took creative writing courses at Emory University and Anderson University, and studied at Sewanee and the Middlebury Bread Loaf Writers' Conference.  Career  She got her start in writing when a personal essay she wrote for a writing class was published in Guideposts and reprinted in Reader's Digest. She went on to become a contributing editor at Guideposts. Her first three books were spiritual memoirs describing her experiences in contemplative Christianity, the last telling the story of her journey from traditional Christianity to feminist theology. God's Joyful Surprise: Finding Yourself Loved ...
Burnt Weeny Sandwich, released in 1970, is the seventh album by the American rock band the Mothers of Invention, and the ninth overall by Frank Zappa. It consists of both studio and live recordings. The LP included a large triple-folded black and white poster saying The Mothers of Invention Sincerely Regret to Inform You under multiple images of the band.  Title  The album's unusual title, Zappa would later say in an interview, comes from an actual snack that he enjoyed eating, consisting of a burnt Hebrew National hot dog in a sandwich with mustard. In 1975, Burnt Weeny Sandwich and Weasels Ripped My Flesh were reissued together as 2 Originals of the Mothers of Invention, with the original covers used as the left and right sides of the inner spread, and the outer gatefold cover depicting a revolver shooting toothpaste onto a toothbrush.  Album information  The album was essentially a 'posthumous' Mothers release, having been issued after Frank Zappa dissolved the original band. Ian Underwood's contributions are significant here. Like its 1970 counterpart Weasels Ripped My Flesh, this album comprises tracks from the Mothers vault that were not previously released. Whereas...
Ann Makosinski is a Filipino-Polish-Canadian inventor and public speaker. She is known for her invention of the thermoelectric flashlight in 2011.  Early life and education  Makosinski is of Filipino and Polish descent. Makosinski's family lives in Saanich, British Columbia. Her father is a retired lab manager with two medical patents. From a young age, she became fond of tinkering with different trinkets that she found around the house. One of her first toys was a box of transistors. She started soldering circuits by the age of 9. In sixth grade, Ann began competing in science fairs. For her grade 7 science project, Makosinski invented a radio powered by the wasted heat from a candle. Two years later, she built a piezoelectric flashlight of her own design. At 15, Makosinski decided to invent a light source that would not require any batteries and could be charged using the heat from the user's hand. In the end, she came up with the Hollow Flashlight, a first-of-its-kind renewable flashlight that did not require any changing of batteries or charging. Her inspiration for this idea came when a friend from the Philippines told her that she had failed a class in school because she...
A biological patent is a patent on an invention in the field of biology that by law allows the patent holder to exclude others from making, using, selling, or importing the protected invention for a limited period of time. The scope and reach of biological patents vary among jurisdictions, and may include biological technology and products, genetically modified organisms and genetic material. The applicability of patents to substances and processes wholly or partially natural in origin is a subject of debate.  Biological patents in different jurisdictions   Australia  In February 2013, Judge Justice John Nicholas ruled in the Federal Court of Australia in favour of a Myriad Genetics patent on the BRCA1 gene. This was a landmark ruling, affirming the validity of patents on naturally occurring DNA sequences. However, the U.S. Supreme Court came to the opposite conclusion only a few months later. The Australian ruling has been appealed to the Full Bench of the Federal Court submissions in the case include consideration of the U.S. Supreme Court ruling. This decision was decided in 2014, affirming Nicholas J's decision in favor of Myriad, confirming that isolated genetic material...
George Elwood Smith was an American applied physicist and a co-inventor of the charge-coupled device . Smith shared one half of the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics with Willard Boyle for the invention of an imaging semiconductor circuit - the CCD sensor.  Education  George Elwood Smith was born on May 10, 1930, in White Plains, New York. After serving in the United States Navy for four years and taking courses at the University of Miami, Smith qualified as a sophomore at the University of Pennsylvania in 1952, graduating with a B.S. in 1955. He then became a teaching assistant at the University of Chicago, where he received his Ph.D. in 1959 with a thesis on the anomalous skin effect in bismuth.  Career  From 1959 until his retirement in 1986, Smith worked at Bell Telephone Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey, where he led research into novel lasers and semiconductor devices. During his tenure, Smith was awarded dozens of patents and eventually headed the VLSI device department. In 1969, Smith and Willard Boyle invented the charge-coupled device , for which they have jointly received the Franklin Institute's Stuart Ballantine Medal in...
Brown Shoes Don't Make It is a song by The Mothers of Invention, written by band leader Frank Zappa. It is the penultimate song on the second album Absolutely Free. The song is one of his most widely renowned works, described by AllMusic as Zappa's first real masterpiece.  History  The title was inspired by an event covered by Time magazine reporter Hugh Sidey in 1966. The reporter correctly guessed that something was amiss when the fastidiously dressed President Lyndon B. Johnson made the sartorial faux pas of wearing brown shoes with a gray suit. Johnson flew to Vietnam for a surprise public relations visit later that day. Live versions of this song are featured on the albums Tinsel Town Rebellion and Road Tapes, Venue 2.  Music and lyrics  The song was written in April 1966 during a trip to Honolulu, where The Mothers played for a week at a club called Da Swamp. It starts as a general attack on suburban American society: TV, greed and conformity are all mocked openly. The story then moves to a city hall official fantasizing about having sex with a thirteen-year-old girl. The music makes several stylistic shifts, covering blues rock, modernist classical music, psychedelic...
Cooking, also known as cookery, is the art, science and craft of using heat to make food more palatable, digestible, nutritious, or safe. Cooking techniques and ingredients vary widely, from grilling food over an open fire, to using electric stoves, to baking in various types of ovens, to boiling and blanching in water, reflecting local conditions, techniques and traditions. Cooking is an aspect of all human societies and a cultural universal. Types of cooking also depend on the skill levels and training of the cooks. Cooking is done both by people in their own dwellings and by professional cooks and chefs in restaurants and other food establishments. The term culinary arts usually refers to cooking that primarily focuses on the aesthetic presentation and taste of food. Preparing food with heat or fire is an activity unique to humans. Archaeological evidence of cooking fires dates to at least 300,000 years ago, but some estimate that humans started cooking as early as 2 million years ago. The expansion of agriculture, commerce, trade, and transportation between civilizations in different regions offered cooks many new ingredients. New inventions and technologies, such as the invention...
The Arnold Palmer is a non-alcoholic mixed drink that combines iced tea and lemonade. The drink was named after American professional golfer Arnold Palmer, who was known to often request and drink this beverage combination some attribute the invention of the beverage to the golfer. There are two alcoholic cocktail versions, one is the John Daly which has vodka and the other is the Lee Trevino or Juan Daly which has tequila. MillerCoors began marketing and distributing a commercially available malt-based version of the beverage under the Arnold Palmer Spiked name in early 2018.  History  In 2012, an ESPN 30 for 30 Shorts documentary was produced on the drink, featuring Palmer, beverage experts, a group of PGA golfers and comedian Will Arnett discussing the drink's history and popularity. In the film, Palmer attributes the spreading of the drink's name to an incident in which a woman copied his ordering the drink at lunch after a long day of designing a golf course in Palm Springs, California, during the late 1960s, saying I'll have that Arnold Palmer drink, too. Palmer preferred three parts unsweetened tea to one part lemonade, although the mass-produced version sold by Arizona...
Originally just a ground beef patty, as it is still interpreted in multiple languages, and the name hamburger may be a reference to ground beef sold in Hamburg evidence also suggests that the United States was the first country to create the hamburger as it is known today, where two slices of bread and a ground beef patty were combined into a hamburger sandwich and sold as such. The hamburger soon included all of its current characteristic trimmings, including onions, lettuce, and sliced pickles. There is still some controversy over the origin of the hamburger - mainly because its two basic ingredients, bread and beef, have been prepared and consumed separately for many years in many countries prior to their combination. However, after various controversies in the 20th century, including a nutritional controversy in the late 1990s, the burger is now readily identified with the United States, as well as a particular style of American cuisine, namely fast food. Along with fried chicken and apple pie, the hamburger has become a culinary icon in the United States. The hamburger's international popularity is the result of the larger globalization of food that also includes the rise...
Daguerreotype was the first publicly available photographic process, widely used from the 1830s to 1850s. Daguerreotype also refers to an image created through this process. Invented by Louis Daguerre and introduced worldwide in 1839, the daguerreotype was almost completely superseded by 1856 with new, less expensive processes, such as ambrotype , that yield more readily viewable images. There has been a revival of the daguerreotype since the late 20th century by a small number of photographers interested in making artistic use of early photographic processes. To make the image, a daguerreotypist polished a sheet of silver-plated copper to a mirror finish treated it with fumes that made its surface light-sensitive exposed it in a camera for as long as was judged to be necessary, which could be as little as a few seconds for brightly sunlit subjects or much longer with less intense lighting made the resulting latent image on it visible by fuming it with mercury vapor removed its sensitivity to light by liquid chemical treatment rinsed and dried it and then sealed the easily marred result behind glass in a protective enclosure. The image is on a mirror-like...
Khinkali Georgian: , romanized: khink'ali, plural Georgian: , romanized: khink'lebi is a dumpling in Georgian cuisine. It is made of twisted knobs of dough, stuffed with meat, fish or vegetables and spices. Khinkali originate in the mountainous regions of eastern Georgia. The invention of the dish is credited to the Mokhevians, as well as the Pshavians, Mtiuletians, and Khevsurians. Traditionally, khinkali are made with coarsely chopped meat. In the mountain areas, this method of preparation is still used.  Etymology   is borrowed from Avar .  Ingredients  Khinkali fillings vary from area to area. The original recipe, the so-called khevsuruli, consisted of only minced meat , onions, chili pepper, salt, and cumin. However, the modern recipe used mostly especially in Georgian urban areas, the so-called kalakuri, uses herbs like parsley and coriander. Mushrooms, potatoes, or cheese may be used in place of meat. Beef or lamb is usual in halal and kosher, which never include pork for religious reasons.  Etiquette  Khinkali is eaten plain or with ground black pepper. The meat filling is uncooked when khinkali is assembled...
Mutation of J.B. is a 1996 point-and-click adventure game by Slovak developer Invention. It was released for MS-DOS by Riki Computer Games in Slovakia, by Vochozka Trading in the Czech Republic and by Neo Software in the German speaking countries.  Plot  The player controls Johnny Burger, who plans to visit his cousin Emanuel for two weeks. A scientist offers him money to be part of an experiment. The experiment goes wrong, the scientist disappears, Johnny gets turned into a human pig, and he is kidnapped to the Planet Ladea. He must return things to how they were and find out what happened to Emanuel.  Development  This was the very first Slovak video game on CD which also included Slovak voice acting. Voice actors included were Jozef Proko, Ladislav Kocan, and Riki magazine's editor-in-chief Ivo Ninja. It is also the first Slovak commercial point  click adventure. The publishers actively tried to push against the rampant piracy by publishing the title directly into the Slovak language without subtitles. The Austrian publisher NEO included German language with subtitles and insisted that the games' music must be uploaded...
The Greatest Canadian is a 2004 television series consisting of 13 episodes produced by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation to identify one greatest Canadian of all time, according to those who watched and participated in the program. The series two-hour debut on 17 October 2004 garnered more than one million viewers, with approximately 500,000 to 700,000 viewers per episode thereafter. The initial nomination phase received more than 10,000 names submitted for consideration. The second phase of the process concluded on 28 November at midnight and the following evening the winner from more than 1.2 million votes was revealed to be Tommy Douglas. The series was inspired by the BBC production the Great Britons and has a spiritual sequel, The Greatest Canadian Invention. The Greatest Canadian experienced strong initial ratings, some fall-off during its run, and a partial rebound for the finale. The series was credited with bringing the CBC public buzz and a younger demographic. Conversely the series was critiqued, by University of Calgary communication professors Bart Beaty and Rebecca Sullivan in their book Canadian Television Today, as middlebrow nationalist pandering. ...
A timeline of United States inventions encompasses the innovative advancements of the United States within a historical context, dating from the Progressive Era to the end of World War II, which have been achieved by inventors who are either native-born or naturalized citizens of the United States. Copyright protection secures a person's right to the first-to-invent claim of the original invention in question, highlighted in Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the United States Constitution which gives the following enumerated power to the United States Congress: To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries. In 1641, the first patent in North America was issued to Samuel Winslow by the General Court of Massachusetts for a new method of making salt. On April 10, 1790, President George Washington signed the Patent Act of 1790 into law which proclaimed that patents were to be authorized for any useful art, manufacture, engine, machine, or device, or any improvement therein not before known or used. On July 31, 1790, Samuel Hopkins of...
Patent infringement is an unauthorized act of - for example - making, using, offering for sale, selling, or importing for these purposes a patented product. Where the subject-matter of the patent is a process, infringement involves the act of using, offering for sale, selling or importing for these purposes at least the product obtained by the patented process. In other words, patent infringement is the commission of a prohibited act with respect to a patented invention without permission from the patent holder. Permission may typically be granted in the form of a license. The definition of patent infringement may vary by jurisdiction. The scope of the patented invention or the extent of protection is defined in the claims of the granted patent. In other words, the terms of the claims inform the public of what is not allowed without the permission of the patent holder. Patents are territorial, and infringement is only possible in a country where a patent is in force. For example, if a patent is granted in the United States, then anyone in the United States is prohibited from making, using, selling or importing the patented item, while people in other countries may be free to exploit...
Bunk Gardner born John Leon Guarnera May 2, 1933 in Cleveland, Ohio is an American musician who most notably played for the original version of Frank Zappa's Mothers of Invention until the group disbanded in 1969. He plays woodwinds and tenor sax. His older brother, Buzz, was also in the Mothers of Invention.  Career  Gardner joined the Cleveland Philharmonic as a bassoonist in 1950. Bunk played on his first record in 1954, playing sax and flute on a record covering popular Western tv show themes, released by Roulette Records. He moved to California in 1960 and met Jimmy Carl Black. Bunk recorded and toured with Eartha Kitt, Tim Buckley, Little Richard and Van Morrison. Gardner joined The Mothers of Invention in November 1966 as a woodwinds player for three years until 1969 and played on four albums: We're Only in It for the Money , Lumpy Gravy , Cruising With Ruben  The Jets , and Uncle Meat  he is also credited on the albums Burnt Weeny Sandwich and Weasels Ripped My Flesh , which were released after he left the band. When he left the group, he and his brother formed Menage A Trois with John Balkin. From 2003 to 2009, Gardner was a...
Robert Barron was an English locksmith notable for his invention of the double-acting tumbler lock in 1778, also recognized as the level tumbler lock. This invention was patented the same year. At the time of the patent, he lived in the city of London.  References 
The history of construction traces the changes in building tools, methods, techniques and systems used in the field of construction. It explains the evolution of how humans created shelter and other structures that comprises the entire built environment. It covers several fields including structural engineering, civil engineering, city growth and population growth, which are relatives to branches of technology, science, history, and architecture. The fields allow both modern and ancient construction to be analyzed, as well as the structures, building materials, and tools used. Construction is an ancient human activity that began at around 4000 BC as a response to the human need for shelter. It has evolved and undergone different trends over time, marked by a few key principles: durability of the materials used, increase in building height and span, the degree of control exercised over the interior environment, and finally, the energy available for the construction process.  Prehistoric Era   Stone Age  Humans during the Paleolithic era were hunter-gatherers. Their nomadic lifestyle led to temporary and short-lived buildings leading to a lack of surviving evidences of construction...
Who Needs the Peace Corps? is a rock and roll song written by American musician Frank Zappa and featured as the second track on the 1968 album We're Only in It for the Money by The Mothers of Invention. The lyrics are a satire of the hippie and flower power movements of the era, narrated by an insincere young man who travels to San Francisco for the Summer of Love: I will ask the Chamber Of Commerce how to get to Haight Street  And smoke an awful lot of dope. The song quickly became dated when the hippie movement faded and was only performed live during the early years of the Mothers of Invention. It was briefly revived in 1988 however, as can be heard on the live album The Best Band You Never Heard in Your Life. On the performance selected for the album, Mike Keneally performs the monologue at the end of the song in a style reminiscent of Johnny Cash's, who was very unlike the hippie portrayed in the song. The song is also part of the soundtrack of the 1969 film Medium Cool.  Lyrics  The lyrics of Who Needs the Peace Corps? mock hippies and people who follow the hippie fashion such as wearing beads, leather bands and long hair, or smoking dope without caring about...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 711 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The Internet Oracle is an effort at collective humor in a pseudo-Socratic question-and-answer format. A user sends a question to the Oracle via e-mail, or the Internet Oracle website, and it is sent to another user who may answer it. Meanwhile, the original questioner is also sent a question to answer. All exchanges are conducted through a central distribution system which makes all users anonymous. Unanswered questions are returned to the queue after a day or two. Users may also request unanswered questions without posing their own. A completed question-and-answer pair is called an Oracularity.  Style  A representative exchange is: Many of the Oracularities contain Zen references and witty wordplay. Geek humor is also common, though less common than in the early years of the Oracle's existence, when fewer casual home computer users had Internet access. Most Oracularities are significantly longer than the above example, and they sometimes take the form of rambling narratives, poems, top-ten lists, spoofing of interactive fiction games, or anything else that can...
Internet radio, also known as online radio, web radio, net radio, streaming radio, e-radio and IP radio, is a digital audio service transmitted via the Internet. Broadcasting on the Internet is usually referred to as webcasting since it is not transmitted broadly through wireless means. It can either be used as a stand-alone device running through the Internet, or as a software running through a single computer. Internet radio involves streaming media, presenting listeners with a continuous stream of audio that typically cannot be paused or replayed, much like traditional broadcast media in this respect, it is distinct from on-demand file serving. Internet radio is also distinct from podcasting, which involves downloading rather than streaming. Internet radio services offer news, sports, talk, and various genres of music-every format that is available on traditional broadcast radio stations. Many Internet radio services are associated with a corresponding traditional radio station or radio network, although low start-up and ongoing costs have allowed a substantial proliferation of independent Internet-only radio stations. The first Internet radio service was launched...
Internet branding is a brand management technique that uses the World Wide Web  Social Media Channels as a medium for positioning a brand in the marketplace. Branding is increasingly important with the advancements of the internet. Most businesses are exploring various online channels, which include search engine, social media, online press releases, online marketplace, to establish strong relationships with consumers and to build their brands awareness.  Online branding techniques  Some professionals believe that the goal of online branding is to increase brand recognition. Others focus on integrating online branding with the overall brand experience of customers in relation to a company, product, or other branded entity. From this perspective, brand recognition is viewed as one component among many, such as brand differentiation and the Collaboration Age brand dialog facilitated by Internet and mobile communications. Website development is a key component of online branding as a website is used by companies and individuals to present products and services of a brand. Focusing on a website's appearance, functions, and...
An Internet operating system, or Internet OS, is any type of operating system designed to run all of its applications and services through an Internet client, generally a web browser. The advantages of such an OS would be that it would run on a thin client, allowing cheaper, more easily manageable computer systems it would require all applications to be designed on cross-platform, open standards and would not tie a user's applications, documents, and preferences to a single computer, but rather place them in the Internet cloud. The Internet OS has also been promoted as the perfect type of platform for software as a service.  History  Talk of an Internet OS began to surface in 1995 as the browser war started heating up between Microsoft and Netscape. In response to the limited capabilities of HTML at the time, Microsoft began developing an online content authoring platform that would be based on distributed OLE which it codenamed Blackbird. Using OLE, applications put on the web would contain their own processing logic, so would act similar to applications in a typical desktop environment. Immediately, there were concerns that this would tie the web...
Internet slang also known as Internet shorthand, cyber-slang, netspeak, or digispeak is a non-standard or unofficial form of language used by people on the Internet to communicate with one another. A popular example of Internet slang is lol, meaning laughing out loud. Since Internet slang is constantly changing, it is difficult to provide a standardized definition. However, it can be understood to be any type of slang that Internet users have popularized and, in many cases, have coined. Such terms often originate with the purpose of saving keystrokes or to compensate for character limit restrictions. Many people use the same abbreviations in texting, instant messaging, and social networking websites. Acronyms, keyboard symbols, and abbreviations are common types of Internet slang. New dialects of slang, such as leet or lolspeak, develop as ingroup Internet memes rather than time savers. Internet slang is also used in face-to-face, real life communication.  Creation and evolution   Origins  Internet slang originated in the early days of the Internet, with some terms predating it. The earliest forms of Internet slang assumed people's knowledge of programming and commands...
United Internet AG is a global Internet services company headquartered in Montabaur, Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The company is structured in two business areas, Access and Applications, and has a total of 16 brands and numerous subsidiaries. The well-known brands under the umbrella of United Internet AG include 11, Ionos, Strato, Fasthosts, GM, WEB.DE and 11 Versatel. United Internet AG is listed in MDA, TecDA - going public in 1998 . United Internet comprises over 27 million customer accounts and runs business in over 30 locations across the world.  History  The history of the Group goes back to 11 EDV-Marketing GmbH, which was founded in 1988 by Ralph Dommermuth and Wendelin Abresch as a service provider for marketing and advertising. In the 1990s, the company grew into a large corporation that offered web hosting packages as well as its own online service that allowed users to dial up to the Internet. In March 1998, the company went public under the name 11 Internet AG  Co. KGaA. It later becomes United Internet AG, under whose umbrella the 11 brand stands for Internet access products. Ordinary shares with a notional share...
An Internet caf, also known as a cybercaf, is a caf or a convenience store or a fully dedicated Internet access business that provides the use of computers with high bandwidth Internet access on the payment of a fee. Usage is generally charged by the minute or part of hour. An Internet caf will generally also offer refreshments or other services such as phone repair. Internet cafs are often hosted within a shop or other establishment. They are located worldwide, and many people use them when traveling to access webmail and instant messaging services to keep in touch with family and friends. Apart from travelers, in many developing countries Internet cafs are the primary form of Internet access for citizens as a shared-access model is more affordable than personal ownership of equipment andor software. Internet cafs are a natural evolution of the traditional caf. As Internet access rose many pubs, bars, and cafs added terminals and eventually Wi-Fi hotspots, eroding the distinction between the Internet caf and normal cafs. In recent years, traditional internet cafs have experienced a significant decline in developed countries due to the widespread availability of personal...
Conwy County Borough is a county borough in the north of Wales. It covers an area of 1,126 km2 and had a population of approximately 114,800 in 2021. The CadwICOMOS Register of Parks and Gardens of Special Historic Interest in Wales was established in 2002 and given statutory status in 2022. It is administered by Cadw, the historic environment agency of the Welsh Government. Elisabeth Whittle described Cadw as having a somewhat special and guiding role in the preservation of historic parks and gardens, since they are an integral part of Welsh archaeological and architectural heritage. The register includes just under 400 sites, ranging from gardens of private houses, to cemeteries and public parks. Parks and gardens are listed at one of three grades, matching the grading system used for listed buildings. Grade I is the highest grade, for sites of exceptional interest Grade II, the next highest, denotes parks and gardens of great quality while Grade II denotes sites of special interest. There are 23 sites on the register of parks and gardens in Conwy County Borough. Four are listed at Grade I, four at Grade II, and 15 at Grade II.  Key   List of parks and... 
Bonnie Gold is an American mathematician, mathematical logician, philosopher of mathematics, and mathematics educator. She is a professor emerita of mathematics at Monmouth University.  Education and career  Gold completed her Ph.D. in 1976 at Cornell University, under the supervision of Michael D. Morley. She was the chair of the mathematics department at Wabash College before moving to Monmouth, where she also became department chair.  Contributions  The research from Gold's dissertation, Compact and  displaystyle omega  -compact formulas in L  1 ,  displaystyle Lomega 1,omega  , was later published in the journal Archiv fr Mathematische Logik und Grundlagenforschung, and concerned infinitary logic. With Sandra Z. Keith and William A. Marion she co-edited Assessment Practices in Undergraduate Mathematics, published by the Mathematical Association of America in 1999. With Roger A. Simons, Gold is also the...
Jos Casanova is a sociologist of religion whose research focuses on globalization, religions, and secularization. He is a professor at Georgetown University and senior fellow at the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs.  Career  Casanova holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy from the Seminario Metropolitano, a Master of Arts degree from the University of Innsbruck in theology, and Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in sociology from the New School for Social Research. During 2017 he was the Kluge Chair in Countries and Cultures of the North at the US Library of Congress' John W. Kluge Center. His work Public Religions in the Modern World has been translated into several languages, including Japanese, Arabic, and Turkish. In 2012, Casanova was awarded the Theology Prize from the Salzburger Hochschulwochen in recognition of his life-long achievement in the field of theology.  Publications  Islam, Gender, and Democracy in Comparative Perspective, with Jocelyne Cesari The Jesuits and Globalization: Historical Legacies and Contemporary Challenges, with Thomas F. Banchoff Geopoltica...
Benni Efrat Hebrew:   Arabic:   born 1936 is an Israeli painter, sculptor, printmaker and filmmaker who was born in Beirut, Lebanon.  Biography  Benni Efrat immigrated to Palestine in 1947. From 1959 to 1961, he studied at the Avni Institute of Art and Design in Tel Aviv under Yehezkel Streichman . From 1966 to 1976, he lived in London, where he studied at Saint Martin's School of Art in London.  Art career  Benni Efrat was one of the pioneers of Israeli Conceptual artists and influenced others in this direction e.g., Joshua Neustein, Michael Gitlin, Buky Schwartz. His works were systems of components that spoke for themselves and sought to represent no more than the sum of their parts. In the mid-1970s, his displays were accompanied by films, on the back of which the artist had painted. After settling in New York City in 1976, became involved with conceptual art, producing drawings, prints, and photographs that explore energy, space, and the perception in sculpture. Efrat currently lives in Belgium.  Awards and recognition  1966 America-Israel Cultural Foundation 1969 Sixth Paris Biennale for Young Artists 1974 Sandberg Prize for Israeli...
The first USS Sands was a Clemson-class destroyer in the United States Navy, before and during World War II. She was the first ship named for Benjamin F. Sands and his son, James H. Sands.  Construction  Sands was ordered from the New York Shipbuilding Corporation on 29 December 1917, and was laid down on 22 March 1919 at the New York Shipbuilding Corporation's, Camden, New Jersey shipyard. The ship was launched on 28 October 1919, sponsored by Miss Jane McCue Sands. Sands was commissioned on 10 November 1920.  Service history   1920s  After commissioning, Sands remained at Philadelphia to fit out for European duty. On 14 December the destroyer departed from Philadelphia steamed to Melville, Rhode Island, for torpedo outfit then proceeded to New York. On 3 January 1921, she sailed for Europe. She arrived at Brest on the 16th and, for the next seven months, ran between French and British ports. In mid-August, she steamed for the Baltic called at various ports on that sea, despite the still present danger of mines, and returned to Cherbourg on 27 September. Three weeks later, she left the French coast and headed for the eastern Mediterranean and the Black...
The Bou Regreg is a river located in western Morocco which discharges into the Atlantic Ocean between the cities of Rabat and Sal. The estuary of this river is termed Wadi Sala. The river is 240 kilometres long, with a tidal estuary of approximately 24 kilometres extending upriver. Its average discharge is 23 m3s and can reach 1500 m3s during periods of flooding. The river originates in the Middle Atlas mountains at an altitude of 1627 meters on the level of Jbel Mtourzgane and of Grou and descends to its mouth at the Atlantic Ocean, separating the cities of Rabat to the south and Sal to the north.  Water quality  Water quality issues of the Bou Regreg include tidal saltwater intrusion, excessive runoff of nitrates from agricultural land uses and mercury contamination thought to arise from use of certain pesticides within the drainage basin.  History  The Phoenicians and the Carthaginians, who founded several colonies in Morocco, inhabited the banks of the Bou Regreg approximately two kilometers from its mouth at the ancient site of Chellah. This archaeological site contains the ruins of a Roman town known...
Vampires are frequently represented in popular culture across various forms of media, including appearances in ballet, films, literature, music, opera, radio, theatre, paintings, and video games. Though there are diverse and creative interpretations and depictions of vampires, the common defining trait is their consumption of blood for sustenance. They are represented using different mediums, including comic books, films, games. Examples of notable vampire-themed works, span from classic films like Nosferatu, to modern franchises like Twilight and Underworld. The role of vampires in role-playing games, particularly Dungeons  Dragons and Vampire: The Masquerade, is noteworthy. Vampires appear in vampire-themed manga and TV shows.  Comic books and graphic novels  Comic books and graphic novels such as Vampirella , Tomb of Dracula , Blade , 30 Days of Night Anita Blake Guilty Pleasures, and Dracula vs. King Arthur . In addition, many major superheroes have faced vampire supervillains at some point. Many comic books featuring Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin off Angel have been released. Marceline and the Scream Queens is a mini-series of comic...
The 1998 CSKA season was the club's seventh season in the Russian Top Division, the highest tier of association football in Russia.  Squad  As of match played 10 November 1998  Transfers   Competitions   Top Division   Results by round   Results   Table   Russian Cup   1997-98   1998-99  The Quarterfinal took place during the 1999 season.  Squad statistics  As of match played 10 November 1998  Appearances and goals   Goal Scorers   Disciplinary record   References 
Connecting America: The National Broadband Plan is a Federal Communications Commission plan to improve Internet access in the United States. The FCC was directed to create the plan by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and unveiled its plan on March 16, 2010. The act did not give the FCC specific jurisdiction to carry out a national broadband plan or to amend the universal service provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, but it required that the FCC draft a plan to include a detailed strategy for achieving affordability and maximizing use of broadband to advance consumer welfare, civic participation, public safety and homeland security, community development, health care delivery, energy independence and efficiency, education, employee training, private sector investment, entrepreneurial activity, job creation and economic growth, and other national purposes. An official website for the plan, broadband.gov, highlighted energy and environment features. Other goals listed were 21st century care, economic opportunity, health care, civic engagement and public safety. Broadband maps, tests and reporting of broadband dead zones were also featured...
Lamak ibn Mlik al-ammd was a qadi who was a prominent political and religious figure in 11th-century Yemen, under the Sulayhid dynasty. An Isma'ili Muslim, Lamak was sent to the court of the Isma'ili Fatimid Caliphate for several years from 1062 to 1067 and served as an embassy representing Sulayhid interests. He was instrumental in making Yemen the center of the Isma'ili da'wah and also for re-establishing the da'wah in India after its original extinction there. His visit also helped define the relationship between the Fatimids and the Sulayhids and bring their interests into mutual alignment. When he returned to Yemen, he brought some of the Fatimids' Isma'ili literature with him, which indirectly led to its survival of the Ayyubid destruction of Isma'ili manuscripts after they conquered Egypt. According to Abbas Hamdani, Lamak was responsible for introducing the split between political and religious authority in Sulayhid Yemen after Ali al-Sulayhi's death. Al-Mukarram inherited the status of da'i from his father along with the monarchy but in practice it was Lamak who carried out these duties, and he had been appointed da'i himself by al-Mustansir.  Biography... 
Lei'd in Hawaii is an unfinished live album by the American rock band the Beach Boys that was produced shortly after the completion of their 1967 studio album Smiley Smile. It was initially planned to include the band's first live concert performances since their tour of Europe in May 1967. The two concerts, held at the Honolulu International Center Arena on August 25 and 26, featured a rare appearance from Brian Wilson, marking his only shows with the touring group between 1965 and 1970. It was also the band's first public appearance following their controversial withdrawal from the Monterey Pop Festival that summer. For this one-off engagement, the group arranged their songs in a similar stripped-down style as Smiley Smile, with Wilson on Baldwin organ. However, the band was underrehearsed and performed their sets poorly. Some of the members were also under the influence of LSD for the duration. After deeming the concert tapes unsuitable for release, in September 1967, the group attempted to rerecord the entire performance as a live-in-the-studio album. Lei'd in Hawaii was ultimately abandoned in favor of recording the songs that formed their next album, Wild Honey . Commentators...
Koloriang is one of the 60 Legislative Assembly constituencies of Arunachal Pradesh state in India. It is part of Kurung Kumey district and is reserved for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes.  Members of the Legislative Assembly   Election results   Assembly Election 2024   Assembly Election 2019   Assembly Election 2014   Assembly Election 2009   Assembly Election 2004   Assembly Election 1999   Assembly Election 1995   Assembly Election 1990   Assembly Election 1984   Assembly Election 1980   Assembly Election 1978   See also  List of constituencies of the Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly Kurung Kumey district  References 
Axel Karl Petersen was a Danish amateur football player, who played in the midfielder position. He played two games for the Denmark national football team, and won a silver medal at the 1912 Summer Olympics. He most notably represented Copenhagen club Boldklubben Frem, made his Danish national team debut in October 1911, and was selected for the Danish team at the 1912 Summer Olympics. He played one match at the tournament, the 7-0 win against Norway in the first round, as Denmark won silver medals. This was to be his last national team game.  References   External links  Axel Petersen national team profile at the Danish Football Association Axel Petersen at databaseOlympics.com Axel Petersen at Olympics.com
Jay Dennis Murphy is an American former professional basketball player. He played four seasons in the National Basketball Association for the Los Angeles Clippers and Washington Bullets.  College career  He attended high school at Francis T Maloney High School in Meriden, Connecticut. A 6'9 and 220 lbs. power forward, Murphy played for coaches Tom Davis and Gary Williams at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. He averaged 14.6 points per game in his four-year career. Murphy was a key reason why BC enjoyed success in the early 1980s, leading the Eagles to three NCAA Tournaments - two Sweet 16s and one Elite Eight - and one National Invitation Tournament in his four seasons . He was a three-time All-Big East honoree, earning first-team honors as a senior. He ranks sixth on the school's career scoring list and seventh on the career rebounding list .  Professional career  Murphy was selected in the second round of the 1984 NBA draft by the Golden State Warriors. He did not play a game with the Warriors as he was immediately traded to the Los Angeles Clippers for center...
The Cine Dor is a cinema in Madrid, Spain. It is currently used for Filmoteca Espaola screenings.  History  Envisioned as a socio-cultural hall, the original venue was commissioned by Mariano Tejero Ruiz in 1912. Years later, in 1922, it was rebuilt as a cinema hall by architect Crspulo Moro Cabeza. It fell into disuse in the 1960s. The modernista faade managed to endure the vicissitudes of 20th-century Spain , and the venue was rehabilitated by Javier Feduchi in 1984. In 1989, after a 26 year closure, the Cine Dor re-opened as the venue for Filmoteca Espaola screenings.  References 
L'Universit Nantes Angers Le Mans is a consortium of universities, graduate schools, as well as teaching hospitals and research institutes from the Pays de la Loire region in France.  History  April 18, 2006: the law on research programs encourages cooperation between research players. December 31, 2008: official creation of the University of Nantes-Angers-Le Mans in the form of a research and higher education cluster and the status of a public scientific cooperation establishment . June 29, 2009: official launch of the Pres. Daniel Martina, President of the University of Angers, is elected President of the Pres.  Founding members  University of Nantes University of Angers University of Maine Ecole Centrale de Nantes Ecole des Mines de Nantes Agrocampus Ouest Oniris Nantes University Hospital Angers University Hospital ESA group Audencia Nantes  Associate members  CNAM Arts et Mtiers - Angers ENSA Nantes Ecole de design Nantes Atlantique ESBA Nantes Mtropole ESBA TALM ENSM ESSCA ESEO group ESB group ICAM Ismans Integrated Center for Oncology Ifremer Ifsttar Inserm Universit Catholique de l'Ouest  References 
The 1998-99 Detroit Pistons season was the 51st season for the Detroit Pistons in the National Basketball Association, and their 42nd season in Detroit, Michigan. Due to a lockout, the regular season began on February 5, 1999, and was cut from 82 games to 50.  Season summary   Off-season  The Pistons received the eleventh overall pick in the 1998 NBA draft, and selected shooting guard Bonzi Wells out of Ball State University, but later on traded him to the Portland Trail Blazers. During the off-season, the team acquired Christian Laettner from the Atlanta Hawks, and signed free agents Loy Vaught, and Jud Buechler. Laettner would reunite with former Duke University teammate Grant Hill, but only played just 16 games due to an Achilles injury and a broken rib. After a solid year the previous season, Brian Williams changed his named to Bison Dele to honor his Cherokee heritage.  Regular season  The Pistons won their first three games of the regular season, but then posted a five-game losing streak afterwards. However, the team soon posted a six-game winning streak between February and March, posted another six-game winning streak between March and April, and another six-game...
Ricardo Augustus Guerreiro Baptista Leite is a Portuguese medical doctor, manager, author, university professor, analyst and politician. He is the chief executive officer of 'HealthAI - The Global Agency for Responsible AI in Health' and member of the Sintra City Council. In 2024, he was appointed as Obama Foundation Europe Leader. He is the Founder and President of the UNITE Parliamentarians Network for Global Health. He is chair of the Board of the 'Global Health Policy Lab,' an academic collaborative between Harvard University and Charit University, based in Berlin and the Chair of the 'Center for Global Health' at NOVA University Lisbon Information Management and Data Science School. He also served as a Member of the Portuguese National Parliament for four terms and as a member of the Cascais City Council, between 2005 and 2021.  Early life and education  Baptista Leite was born in Toronto, Canada, son of Joo Baptista Leite and Ana Maria Guerreiro Leite who fled Portugal after the Carnation Revolution in 1975. He studied from pre-school until 5th grade at Regina Mundi Catholic School in Toronto. In 1991, he moved with his family to Portugal...
A reach is a segment of a stream or arm of the sea, usually suggesting a straight, level, uninterrupted stretch. It is traditionally defined by the capabilities of sailing boats, as a stretch of a watercourse which, because it is straightish, can be sailed in one reach . Reaches are often named by those using the river, and a reach may be named for landmarks, natural features, and historical reasons see, for instance, Gallions Reach, named after the family that once owned its banks. A reach may be an expanse, or widening, of a stream channel. This commonly occurs after the stream is dammed. A reach is similar to an arm, though an arm may bend and thus have multiple reaches. The term reach can also refer to a level stretch, as between rapids or locks in a canal. The word may be used more generally to refer to any extended portion or stretch of land or water, or even metaphorically. In fluvial hydrology, a reach is a convenient subdivision of study it may be any length of river of fairly uniform characteristics, or the length between gauging stations, or simply the length of a watercourse between any two defined points. Reaches may be measured in terms...
Carceral geography is a field of human geography that explores carceral spaces, which include prisons, concentration camps, immigration detention centers, black sites, and other spaces where people are confined. Carceral geographers may study the design of prison spaces and how these spaces are experienced by imprisoned people and surrounding communities. They also study changes in carceral spaces over time, intersecting with historical geography. Geographers give attention to the politics and placement of prison facilities, and how carceral practices are shaped by settler colonialism and racial capitalism.  History  The first papers squarely in the field of carceral geography were published in the late 1990s or early 2000s, with contributions by Teresa Dirsuweit, Chris Philo, and Ruth Wilson Gilmore. In 2015, carceral geography was a new and fast-developing field, and in 2021 it was firmly on the map of research in human geography with several different theoretical orientations within the field. Scholarship in carceral geography draws on work by Michel Foucault, Erving Goffman, and Giorgio Agamben. It also builds on earlier work in criminology and prison sociology, though...
Australia, officially the Commonwealth of Australia, is a sovereign country comprising the mainland of the Australian continent, the island state of Tasmania, and thousands of minor islands. It occupies a total area of 7,688,287 km2 , making it the sixth-largest country in the world. Located in the Southern Hemisphere between the Indian and Pacific oceans, Australia's jurisdiction spreads across thousands of kilometres beyond the main landmass, including Norfolk Island, Christmas Island, the Cocos Islands, the Coral Sea Islands, Ashmore and Cartier Islands, the Heard and McDonald Islands in the southern Indian Ocean and thousands of other islands, as well as the Australian Antarctic Territory, a territorial claim covering almost half of the continent. The country's geography encompasses a wide range of environments, from arid and semi-arid interior regions to tropical rainforests, temperate woodlands, and alpine areas. Most of the population lives in the temperate coastal zones of the east, southeast, and southwest, while the heartland-known as the Outback-is sparsely populated and characterised by semi-arid and desert landscapes. Australia's geographic isolation...
The U.S. state of Wyoming lies in the Mountain West subregion of the Western United States and has a varied geography. It is bordered by Montana to the north and northwest, South Dakota and Nebraska to the east, Idaho to the west, Utah to the southwest, and Colorado to the south. Wyoming is the least populous U.S. state and has the second-lowest population density behind Alaska. Wyoming's western half is covered mostly by the ranges and rangelands of the Rocky Mountains, while the eastern half of the state is high-elevation prairie called the High Plains. It is drier and windier than the rest of the country, being split between semi-arid and continental climates with greater temperature extremes. Almost half of the land in Wyoming is owned by the federal government, generally protected for public uses. The state ranks 6th by area and fifth by proportion of a state's land owned by the federal government. Federal lands within Wyoming include two national parks , two national recreation areas, two national monuments, several national forests, historic sites, fish hatcheries, and wildlife refuges.  Climate  Wyoming's climate is generally semi-arid and continental...
Coastal geography is the study of the constantly changing region between the ocean and the land, incorporating both the physical geography i.e. coastal geomorphology, climatology and oceanography and the human geography of the coast. It includes understanding coastal weathering processes, particularly wave action, sediment movement and weather, and the ways in which humans interact with the coast.  Wave action and longshore drift  The waves of different strengths that constantly hit against the shoreline are the primary movers and shapers of the coastline. Despite the simplicity of this process, the differences between waves and the rocks they hit result in hugely varying shapes. The effect that waves have depends on their strength. Strong waves, also called destructive waves, occur on high-energy beaches and are typical of winter. They reduce the quantity of sediment present on the beach by carrying it out to bars under the sea. Constructive, weak waves are typical of low-energy beaches and occur most during summer. They do the opposite to destructive waves and increase the size of the beach by piling sediment up onto the berm.  Wave refraction... 
Lesotho is a mountainous, landlocked country located in Southern Africa. It is an enclave, surrounded by South Africa. The total length of the country's borders is 909 kilometres . Lesotho covers an area of around 30,355 square kilometres , of which a negligible percentage is covered with water. Lesotho is the only independent state in the world that lies entirely above 1,000 metres in elevation. Its lowest point is at 1,400 metres , the highest low point of any country. Because of its elevation, the country's climate is cooler than in most other regions at the same latitude. Its climate zone can be classified as continental.  Location  Lesotho is a country in Southern Africa, located at around 2930' south latitude and 2830' east longitude. It is the 141st largest country in the world, with a total land area of 30,355 square kilometres , of which a negligible percentage is covered with water. Lesotho is completely surrounded by South Africa, making it one of only three countries in the world that are enclaved within another country the other two are San Marino and Vatican City, both located within Italy. The total length...
The City and County of Denver, Colorado, is located at 3943'35 North, 10457'56 West in the Colorado Front Range region. The Southern Rocky Mountains lie to the west of Denver and the High Plains lie to the east. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 154.9 square miles . 153.4 sq mi of it is land and 1.6 sq mi of it is water. The total area is 1.03 water.  Adjacent counties  Adams County, Colorado - north and east Arapahoe County, Colorado - south and east and southeastern enclaves Jefferson County, Colorado - west  Adjacent cities  City of Commerce City - north City of Brighton - north separated by a strip of unincorporated Adams County City of Aurora - east City of Glendale - southeastern enclave City of Greenwood Village - south City of Cherry Hills Village - south City of Englewood -south City of Sheridan -south Town of Bow Mar - south City of Littleton - south City of Lakewood -west City of Edgewater -west City of Wheat Ridge -west Town of Mountain View -west Town of Lakeside - west City of Arvada - northwest separated by a strip of unincorporated Jefferson...
Belki , also known as Belogorye , is a type of mountain summit in Southern Siberia.  Description  Belki are snowy mountain peaks rising above the treeline. The name means white mountains and, unlike the golets, which are more often than not free of snow in the summer, the Belki have generally a permanent snow cover. The terms Belki and Belogorye are part of the geographical name of several peaks and ridges of the South Siberian System, especially in the region of the Altai Mountains, such as the Katun Belki and Chuya Belki, as well as in the Eastern Sayan, such as the Agul Belki, Manskoye Belogorye, Kuturchinskoye Belogorye and Kanskoye Belogorye.  See also  List of mountain types South Siberian Mountains  References   External links  Belki, snow-covered mountains
The geography of Scotland is varied from rural lowlands to unspoilt uplands, and from large cities to sparsely inhabited islands. Located in Northern Europe, Scotland comprises the northern part of the island of Great Britain as well as 790 surrounding islands encompassing the major archipelagos of the Shetland Islands, Orkney Islands and the Inner and Outer Hebrides. The only land border is with England, which runs for 96 miles in a northeasternly direction from the Solway Firth in the west to the North Sea on the east coast. Separated by the North Channel, the island of Ireland lies 13 nautical miles from Mull of Kintyre on the Scottish mainland. Norway is located 190 nmi northeast of Scotland across the North Sea. The Atlantic Ocean, which fringes the coastline of western and northern Scotland and its islands, influences the temperate, maritime climate of the country. Scotland contains the majority of mountainous terrain in the UK. The topography of Scotland is distinguished by the Highland Boundary Fault which traverses the Scottish mainland from Helensburgh to Stonehaven. The faultline separates two distinctively different physiographic...
Cyber geography is mapping the physical network of broadband cables.  Background  While servers, routers, cables, and other physical equipment and infrastructure that enable the Internet can be located, the location of each of these hardware modules does not convey the nature of cyberspace. Cyber geography addresses the degree of complexity of this infrastructure. One of the earliest endeavors that investigated the spatiality of cyberspace was the research conducted by Martin Dodge at the University of Manchester between 1997 and 2004. Dodge identified electronic places that exist behind the computer screen as part of such geography. Space in this case is said to be produced or reproduced through social relations and that it is both geographic and cyber as well as a relational concept.  See also  Broadband universal service Mobile broadband Ultra-wideband Wireless broadband  References 
Bangladesh is a densely populated, low-lying, mainly riverine country located in South Asia with a coastline of 580 km on the northern littoral of the Bay of Bengal. The delta plain of the Ganges , Brahmaputra , and Meghna Rivers and their tributaries occupy 79 percent of the country. Four uplifted blocks including the Madhupur and Barind Tracts in the centre and northwest occupy 9 percent and steep hill ranges up to approximately 1,000 metres high occupy 12 percent in the southeast and in the northeast. Straddling the Tropic of Cancer, Bangladesh has a tropical monsoon climate characterised by heavy seasonal rainfall, high temperatures, and high humidity. Natural disasters such as floods and cyclones accompanied by storm surges periodically affect the country. Most of the country is intensively farmed, with rice the main crop, grown in three seasons. Rapid urbanisation is taking place with associated industrial and commercial development. Exports of garments and shrimp plus remittances from Bangladeshis working abroad provide the country's three main sources of foreign exchange income.  Physical geography  The...
The U.S. state of Tennessee is geographically diverse, with varying terrains and several distinct physiographic regions. Its landforms range from the Blue Ridge Mountains in the eastern part of the state to flat and fertile plains along the Mississippi River. The state is geographically, legally, culturally, and economically divided into three Grand Divisions: East Tennessee, Middle Tennessee, and West Tennessee.  Overview  Tennessee is in the Southeastern United States. Most of the state is considered part of the Upland South, and the eastern third is part of Appalachia. Tennessee covers roughly 42,143 square miles , of which 926 square miles , or 2.2, is water. It is the 16th smallest state in terms of land area. The state is about 440 miles long from east to west and 112 miles wide from north to south. Tennessee is geographically, culturally, economically, and legally divided into three Grand Divisions: East Tennessee, Middle Tennessee, and West Tennessee. As culturally and historically distinct regions, the Grand Divisions are sometimes called The Three Tennessees. Tennessee borders eight other states: Kentucky and Virginia to the...
Missouri, a state near the geographical center of the United States, has three distinct physiographic divisions: a north-western upland plain or prairie region part of the Interior Plains' Central Lowland areas Osage Plain 12f and Dissected Till Plains 12e known as the northern plains a lowland in the extreme southeast bootheel region of Missouri, part of the Atlantic Plain known as the Mississippi Alluvial Plain or the Mississippi embayment the Missouri portion of the Ozark Plateau which lies between the Mississippi Alluvial Plain and the Central lowland. The boundary between the northern plains and the Ozark region follows the Missouri River from its mouth at St. Louis to Columbia. This also corresponds to the southernmost extent of glaciation during the Pre-Illinoian Stage which destroyed the remnant plateau to the north but left the ancient landforms to the south unaltered. The Ozark boundary runs southwestward from there towards Joplin at the southeast corner of Kansas. The boundary between the Ozark and lowland regions runs southwest from Cape Girardeau on the Mississippi River to the Arkansas border just southwest of Poplar Bluff. Missouri borders...
Barbados is a continental island in the Atlantic Ocean east of the Caribbean and is located at 1310' north of the equator, and 5932' west of the Prime Meridian. As the easternmost isle of the Lesser Antilles in the West Indies, Barbados lies 160 kilometres east of the Windward Islands and Caribbean Sea. The maritime claim for Barbados is a territorial sea of 12 nmi , with an exclusive economic zone of 200 nmi which gives Barbados a total maritime area of 186,898 km2 . Of the total EEZ area, 70,000 km2 is set aside for offshore oil exploration. A pending application to UNCLOS has placed for consideration a continental shelf 200 nmi to the east and south . To the west, most of Barbados's maritime boundaries consist of median lines with neighbours. These neighbours include: Martinique, and Saint Lucia to the northwest, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to the west, Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela to the southwest, and Guyana to the southeast. Barbados's total land area is 439 km2 , and it has a coastline of 97 km length. The island is sometimes...
Laos is a landlocked country in mainland Southeast Asia. It covers approximately 236,800 square kilometers and is surrounded by Myanmar, Cambodia, China, Thailand, and Vietnam. About 70 of its geographic area is made up of mountain ranges, highlands, plateaus, and rivers cut through.  Topography  Most of the western border of Laos is demarcated by the Mekong river, which is an artery for transportation. The Dong Falls at the southern end of the country prevent access to the sea, and cargo boats travel along the entire length of the Mekong in Laos during most of the year. Smaller power boats and pirogues provide an important means of transportation on many of the tributaries of the Mekong. Prior to the twentieth century, kingdoms and principalities encompassed areas on both sides of the Mekong, and Thai control in the nineteenth century extended to the left bank. While the Mekong was established as a border by French colonial forces, travel from 1 side to the other has been more limited since the establishment of the Lao People's Democratic Republic in 1975. The eastern border with Vietnam extends for 2,130 kilometres, mostly along the crest of the Annamite Chain...
Turkmenistan is a country in Central Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea to the west, Iran and Afghanistan to the south, Uzbekistan to the north-east, and Kazakhstan to the north-west. It is the southernmost republic of the Commonwealth of Independent States , the loose federation created at the end of 1991 by most of the post-Soviet states. The geographic coordinates are between 3508' and 4248' north latitude, 5227' and 6641' east longitude. Its longest border is with the Caspian Sea . The other borders are with Iran , Afghanistan , Uzbekistan to the north and east, 1,621 km  and Kazakhstan . Turkmenistan is slightly larger than Cameroon in territory, occupying 491,120 square kilometres . By area, Turkmenistan ranks fourth among the former Soviet republics, after Russia, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine. The country's greatest extent from west to east is 1,100 km , and its greatest north-to-south distance is 650 km .  Physical features  Terrain of Turkmenistan consists of a flat-to-rolling sandy desert, the Karakum, with its dunes...
The geography of Malta is dominated by water. Malta is an archipelago of coralline limestone, located in Southern Europe, but like most of Sicily sits on the African tectonic plate in the Mediterranean Sea. Malta is 81 kilometres south of Sicily, Italy, and nearly 300 km north and northeast of Africa. Although Malta is located farther south than Tunis and some other cities in North Africa, it is not the Southernmost point of Europe. Only the three largest islands - Malta, Gozo and Comino - are inhabited. Other islands are: Cominotto, Filfla and the St. Paul's Islands. The country is approximately 316 km2 in area. Numerous bays along the indented coastline of the islands provide harbours. The landscape of the islands is characterised by high hills with terraced fields. The capital is Valletta.  Surface: statistics  Malta has a total area of 315.718 km2 with land making up all of that and water taking up zero area. Compared to other political entities, this makes Malta, in comparison with Australia: slightly less than one-seventh the Australian Capital Territory's size Canada: roughly one-eighteenth of...
Mongolia is a landlocked country in East Asia, located between China and Russia. The terrain is one of mountains and rolling plateaus, with a high degree of relief. The total land area of Mongolia is 1,564,116 square kilometres. Overall, the land slopes from the high Altai Mountains of the west and the north to plains and depressions in the east and the south. The Khiten Peak in extreme western Mongolia on the Chinese border is the highest point . The lowest point is at 560 m , is the Hoh Nuur or lake Huh. The country has an average elevation of 1,580 m . The landscape includes one of Asia's largest freshwater lakes , many salt lakes, marshes, sand dunes, rolling grasslands, alpine forests, and permanent mountain glaciers. Northern and western Mongolia are seismically active zones, with frequent earthquakes and many hot springs and extinct volcanoes. The nation's closest point to any ocean is approximately 645 kilometres from the country's easternmost tip, bordering North China to Jinzhou in Liaoning province, China along the coastline of the Bohai Sea.  Mountain regions  Mongolia has four major mountain ranges....
Portugal is a coastal nation in western Europe, located at the western end of the Iberian Peninsula, bordering Spain on its northern and eastern frontiers: a total of 1,215 kilometres . The Portuguese territory also includes a series of archipelagos in the Atlantic Ocean , which are strategic islands along the North Atlantic. The extreme south is not too far from the Strait of Gibraltar, leading to the Mediterranean Sea. In total, the country occupies an area of 92,090 square kilometres of which 91,470 square kilometres is land and 620 square kilometres water. Despite these definitions, the Portugal-Spain border remains an unresolved territorial dispute between the two countries. Portugal does not recognise the border between Caia and Ribeira de Cuncos River deltas, since the beginning of the 1801 occupation of Olivenza by Spain. This territory, though under de facto Spanish occupation, remains a de jure part of Portugal, consequently no border is henceforth recognised in this area.  Physical  Portugal is located on the western coast of the Iberian Peninsula and plateau, that divides the inland Mediterranean...
The geography of Campania illustrates the geographical characteristics of Campania, a region of Italy.  General data  From the gulfs of Gaeta, Naples, Policastro and Salerno to the most notable elevations of the Campania Apennines, Campania extends over a morphologically very varied territory. To the north it borders Lazio and Molise to the east, Apulia and Basilicata, which it also borders to the south to the west the Tyrrhenian Sea.  Areas  From a physical point of view, the Campania region can be divided into two areas: one mountainous and one flat: The mountainous area includes the Campania Apennines, formed by a series of elevations, acrocores and plateaus , between which open numerous and easy passes the most important is the Sella di Ariano and there flows the river Calore Irpino with its tributaries: Ufita , Tammaro and Sabato. The flat area is not a single surface, but is divided into many plains divided by many reliefs of the antiappennine that is from the volcanic relief of Roccamonfina, of the Campi Flegrei, from Vesuvius and from the chain of...
Applied Geography is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Elsevier. The journal covers research that applies geographic methods to solve human problems, including human geography, physical geography, and geographical information system science. The co-editors-in-chief are Jian Peng and Yehua Dennis Wei .  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 4.240.  References   External links  Official website
Language geography is the branch of human geography that studies the geographic distribution of language or its constituent elements. Linguistic geography can also refer to studies of how people talk about the landscape. For example, toponymy is the study of place names. Landscape ethnoecology, also known as ethnophysiography, is the study of landscape ontologies and how they are expressed in language. There are two principal fields of study within the geography of language: geography of languages, which deals with the distribution through history and space of languages, andor is concerned with 'the analysis of the distribution patterns and spatial structures of languages in contact'. geolinguistics being, when used as a sub-discipline of geography, the study of the 'political, economic and cultural processes that affect the status and distribution of languages'. When perceived as a sub-discipline of linguistics that incorporates contact linguistics, one definition appearing has been 'the study of languages and dialects in contact and in conflict with various societal, economic, ideological, political and other contemporary trends with regard to a particular geographic location...
The landlocked U.S. state of Nevada has a varied geography and is almost entirely within the Basin and Range Province and is broken up by many north-south mountain ranges. Most of these ranges have endorheic valleys between them.  Overview  Much of the northern part of the state is within the Great Basin, a mild desert that experiences hot temperatures in the summer and cold temperatures in the winter. Occasionally, moisture from the Arizona Monsoon will cause summer thunderstorms Pacific storms may blanket the area with snow. The state's highest recorded temperature was 125 F in Laughlin on June 29, 1994. The coldest recorded temperature was 52 F set in San Jacinto in 1972, in the northeastern portion of the state. The Humboldt River crosses the state from east to west across the northern part of the state, draining into the Humboldt Sink near Lovelock. Several rivers drain from the Sierra Nevada eastward, including the Walker, Truckee, and Carson rivers. All of these rivers are endorheic basins, ending in Walker Lake, Pyramid Lake, and the Carson Sink, respectively. However, not all of Nevada is within the Great Basin...
Historical geography is the branch of geography that studies the ways in which geographic phenomena have changed over time. In its modern form, it is a synthesizing discipline which shares both topical and methodological similarities with history, anthropology, ecology, geology, environmental studies, literary studies, and other fields. Although the majority of work in historical geography is considered human geography, the field also encompasses studies of geographic change which are not primarily anthropogenic. Historical geography is often a major component of school and university curricula in geography and social studies. Current research in historical geography is being performed by scholars in more than forty countries.  Themes  This sub-branch of human geography is closely related to history, environmental history, and historical ecology. Historical geography seeks to determine how cultural features of various societies across the planet emerged and evolved by understanding their interaction with their local environment and surroundings. More recent studies make use of non-traditional methods, such as botany and archeology.  Development of the discipline  In its early...
Halloween is a celebration observed on October 31, the day before the feast of All Hallows, also known as Hallowmas or All Saints' Day. The celebrations and observances of this day occur primarily in regions of the Western world, albeit with some traditions varying significantly between geographical areas.  Origins  Halloween is the eve of vigil before the Western Christian feast of All Hallows which is observed on November 1. This day begins the triduum of Hallowtide, which culminates with All Souls' Day. In the Middle Ages, many Christians held a folk belief that All Hallows' Eve was the night where the veil between the material world and the afterlife was at its most transparent.  Americas   Canada  Scottish emigration, primarily to Canada before 1870 and to the United States thereafter, brought the Scottish version of the holiday to each country. The earliest known reference to ritual begging on Halloween in English speaking North America occurs in 1911 when a newspaper in Kingston, Ontario reported that it was normal for the smaller children to go street guising on Halloween between 6 and 7 p.m., visiting shops, and neighbours to be rewarded with...
Qualitative geography is a subfield and methodological approach to geography focusing on nominal data, descriptive information, and the subjective and interpretive aspects of how humans experience and perceive the world. Often, it is concerned with understanding the lived experiences of individuals and groups and the social, cultural, and political contexts in which those experiences occur. Thus, qualitative geography is traditionally placed under the branch of human geography however, technical geographers are increasingly directing their methods toward interpreting, visualizing, and understanding qualitative datasets, and physical geographers employ nominal qualitative data as well as quanitative. Furthermore, there is increased interest in applying approaches and methods that are generally viewed as more qualitative in nature to physical geography, such as in critical physical geography. While qualitative geography is often viewed as the opposite of quantitative geography, the two sets of techniques are increasingly used to complement each other. Qualitative research can be employed in the scientific process to start the observation process, determine variables to include in research...
Urban geography is the subdiscipline of geography that derives from a study of cities and urban processes. Urban geographers and urbanists examine various aspects of urban life and the built environment. Scholars, activists, and the public have participated in, studied, and critiqued flows of economic and natural resources, human and non-human bodies, patterns of development and infrastructure, political and institutional activities, governance, decay and renewal, and notions of socio-spatial inclusions, exclusions, and everyday life. Urban geography includes different other fields in geography such as the physical, social, and economic aspects of urban geography. The physical geography of urban environments is essential to understand why a town is placed in a specific area, and how the conditions in the environment play an important role with regard to whether or not the city successfully develops. Social geography examines societal and cultural values, diversity, and other conditions that relate to people in the cities. Economic geography is important to examine the economic and job flow within the urban population. These various aspects involved in studying urban geography are necessary...
Mali is a landlocked nation in West Africa, located southwest of Algeria, extending south-west from the southern Sahara Desert through the Sahel to the Sudanian savanna zone. Mali's size is 1,240,192 square kilometers. Desert or semi-desert covers about 65 percent of Mali's total area . The Niger River creates a large and fertile inland delta as it arcs northeast through Mali from Guinea before turning south and eventually emptying into the Gulf of Guinea. The territory encompasses three natural zones: the southern cultivated Sudanese zone, central semi-desert Sahelian zone, and northern desert Saharan zone. The terrain is primarily savanna in the south and flat to rolling plains or high plateau in the north. There are rugged hills in the northeast, with elevations of up to 1,000 meters. The Niger and Senegal are Mali's two largest rivers. The Niger is generally described as Mali's lifeblood, a source of food, drinking water, irrigation, and transportation. The country's lowest point is on the Senegal River and its highest point is Hombori Tondo .  Climate  Mali is one of the...
Afghanistan is a landlocked mountainous country located on the Iranian Plateau, at the crossroads of Central Asia and South Asia. The country is the 40th largest in the world in size. Kabul is the capital and largest city of Afghanistan, located in the middle of Kabul Province. With a location at the intersection of major trade routes, Afghanistan has attracted a succession of invaders since the sixth century BC. Afghanistan contains most of the Hindu Kush. There are a number of major rivers in the country, including Amu Darya, Arghandab, Farah, Gambila, Hari, Helmand, Kabul, Kokcha, Kunar, Kunduz, and Panj. The country also possesses many smaller rivers as well as streams, canals, lakes, ponds, and springs. Most of its fresh water historically flowed into neighboring countries.  Area and boundaries  Area total: 652,864 km2 country rank in the world: 40th land: 652,230 km2 water: 630 km2 Area - comparative Australia comparative: approximately 23 the size of South Australia Canada comparative: approximately the size of Saskatchewan United Kingdom comparative: approximately 223 times the size of the United Kingdom United States...
England comprises most of the central and southern two-thirds of the island of Great Britain, in addition to a number of small islands of which the largest is the Isle of Wight. England is bordered to the north by Scotland and to the west by Wales. It is closer to continental Europe than any other part of mainland Britain, divided from France only by a 33 km sea gap, the English Channel. The 50 km Channel Tunnel, near Folkestone, directly links England to mainland Europe. The EnglishFrench border is halfway along the tunnel. Most of England consists of low hills and plains, with upland and mountainous terrain in the north and west. Uplands in the north include the Pennines, an upland chain dividing east and west, the Lake District, containing the highest mountains in the country, the Cheviot Hills across the Anglo-Scottish border, and the North York Moors near the North Sea. Uplands in the west include Dartmoor and Exmoor in the south west and the Shropshire Hills near Wales. The approximate dividing line between terrain types is often indicated by the Tees-Exe line. To the south of that line, there are larger areas of flatter land, including East Anglia and the Fens...
The geography of France consists of a terrain that is mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in the north and the west and mountainous in the south including the Massif Central and the Pyrenees and the east the country's highest points being in the Alps. Metropolitan France has a total size of 551,695 km2 . It is the third-largest country in Europe by area and the largest in Western Europe.  Physical geography of Metropolitan France   Climate  Metropolitan France's territory is relatively large and so its climate is not uniform and gives rise to the following climate nuances: The cool semi-arid climate is found in the western part of the Bouches-du-Rhne area and the Roussillon plain of the Pyrnes-Orientales. Summers are hot, winters are cool winters. There is insufficient average annual rainfall in some years. The hot-summer Mediterranean climate is found along the Gulf of Lion and further inland. Summers are hot and dry, winters are cool and autumns can be very rainy near the Cvennes. The warm-summer Mediterranean climate is found in the northwestern part of Brittany and along the Gulf of...
Arizona is a landlocked state situated in the southwestern region of the United States of America. It has a vast and diverse geography famous for its deep canyons, high- and low-elevation deserts, numerous natural rock formations, and volcanic mountain ranges. Arizona shares land borders with Utah to the north, the Mexican state of Sonora to the south, New Mexico to the east, and Nevada to the northwest, as well as water borders with California and the Mexican state of Baja California to the southwest along the Colorado River. Arizona is also one of the Four Corners states and is diagonally adjacent to Colorado. Arizona has a total area of 113,998 square miles , making it the sixth largest U.S. state. Of this area, just 0.3 consists of water, which makes Arizona the state with the second lowest percentage of water area . Arizona spans about 335 miles at its widest and 390 miles at its longest, and has an average elevation of about 4,000 feet . The geographic center of Arizona is located in Yavapai County, approximately 55 miles east-southeast of the city of Prescott.  Political geography  Arizona...
The geography of Mozambique consists mostly of coastal lowlands with uplands in its centre and high plateaus in the northwest. There are also mountains in the western portion. The country is located on the east coast of southern Africa, directly west of the island of Madagascar. Mozambique has a tropical climate with two seasons, a wet season from October to March and a dry season from April to September.  Physical features   The coast  The coastline extends from 26 52 S. to 10 40 S., and from south to north makes a double curve with a general trend outward to the east. It has a length of 2,300 kilometres . The southern coastline is characterized by sandy beaches backed by coastal dunes. The dunes can reach up to 120 m in height, and older dunes are vegetated. Behind the coastal dunes are lagoons, including river estuaries, closed saline lagoons, and salt lakes. Some 65 km north of the South African frontier is the deep indentation of Maputo Bay . The land then turns outward to Cape Correntes, a little north of which is Inhambane Bay. Bending westward again and passing the Bazaruto Archipelago of several small islands, of...
Kazakhstan is located in Central Asia, with a small portion in Eastern Europe. With an area of about 2,724,900 square kilometers Kazakhstan is the ninth largest country in the world, more than twice the combined size of the other four Central Asian states and 60 larger than Alaska. The country borders Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Kyrgyzstan to the south Russia to the north Russia and the Caspian Sea to the west and China's injiang Uygur Autonomous Region to the east.  Area and boundaries  According to CIA World Factbook estimates: Area Total: 2,724,900 km2 country rank in the world: 9th Land: 2,699,700 km2 Water: 25,200 km2 Area comparative Australia comparative: slightly larger than Western Australia Canada comparative: slightly less than 112 times the size of Nunavut United States comparative: approximately 35 larger than Alaska Land boundaries Total: 13,364 kilometres Border countries: People's Republic of China 1,765 kilometres Kyrgyzstan 1,212 kilometres Russia 7,644 kilometres Turkmenistan to the...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 722 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In artificial intelligence , symbolic artificial intelligence also known as classical artificial intelligence or logic-based artificial intelligence is a collection of methods based on high-level symbolic representations of problems, logic, and search. Symbolic AI used tools such as logic programming, production rules, semantic nets and frames. It developed applications such as knowledge-based systems , symbolic mathematics, automated theorem provers, ontologies, the semantic web, and automated planning and scheduling systems. The symbolic AI paradigm led to important ideas in search, symbolic programming languages, agents, multi-agent systems, the semantic web, and the strengths and limitations of formal knowledge and reasoning systems. Symbolic AI was the dominant paradigm of AI research from the mid-1950s until the mid-1990s. Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that symbolic approaches would eventually succeed in creating a machine with artificial general intelligence and considered this the ultimate goal of their field. An early boom, with early successes such as the Logic Theorist and Samuel's Checkers Playing...
The World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Organization is an international organization focused on artificial intelligence established in July 2026. Proposed by China prior to its 2026 World Artificial Intelligence Conference, it is headquartered in Shanghai and oriented toward the Global South. The organization is viewed by analysts as a rival to the US-led Pax Silica initiative, aiming to counterbalance Western influence across global supply chains for rare-earth elements, semiconductors, and AI governance.  History  The World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Organization was first proposed by Chinese Premier Li Qiang in July 2025. CCP General Secretary i Jinping reiterated the proposal at the 32nd meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation in October 2025. On 16 July 2026, 29 countries signed the agreement on the creation of the WAICO on the eve of the annual World Artificial Intelligence Conference in Shanghai. United Nations Secretary-General Antnio Guterres attended the signing ceremony as an invited guest. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi signed the agreement alongside senior representatives from founding members, including Kazakh Deputy Prime...
Artificial intelligence is a recurrent theme in science fiction, whether utopian, emphasising the potential benefits, or dystopian, emphasising the dangers. The notion of machines with human-like intelligence dates back at least to Samuel Butler's 1872 novel Erewhon. Since then, many science fiction stories have presented different effects of creating such intelligence, often involving rebellions by robots. Among the best known of these are Stanley Kubrick's 1968 2001: A Space Odyssey with its murderous onboard computer HAL 9000, contrasting with the more benign R2-D2 in George Lucas's 1977 Star Wars and the eponymous robot in Pixar's 2008 WALL-E. Scientists and engineers have noted the implausibility of many science fiction scenarios, but have mentioned fictional robots many times in artificial intelligence research articles, most often in a utopian context.  Background  The notion of advanced robots with human-like intelligence dates back at least to Samuel Butler's 1872 novel Erewhon. This drew on an earlier article of his, Darwin among the Machines, where he raised the question of the evolution of consciousness among self-replicating machines that might supplant humans...
A large language model is an AI model trained on a vast amount of text for natural language processing tasks, especially language generation. LLMs can typically generate, summarize, translate, and analyze text in many contexts. They are the basis for many modern chatbots, such as ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, Grok, and DeepSeek. LLMs are typically based on transformer architecture. Generative pre-trained transformers are a type of LLM that is pre-trained to predict the next word. GPTs are then often fine-tuned to follow instructions and to behave as assistants. Biased or inaccurate training data can make an LLM's output less reliable. Benchmark evaluations for LLMs attempt to measure model reasoning, factual accuracy, alignment, and safety.  History  Before the emergence of transformer-based models in 2017, some language models were considered large relative to the computational and data constraints of their time. In the early 1990s, IBM's statistical models pioneered word alignment techniques for machine translation, laying the groundwork for corpus-based language modeling. In 2001, a smoothed n-gram model, such as those employing Kneser-Ney...
The technological singularity, often simply called the singularity, is a hypothetical event in which technological growth accelerates beyond human control, producing unpredictable changes in human civilization. According to the most popular version of the singularity hypothesis, I. J. Good's intelligence explosion model of 1965, an upgradable intelligent agent could eventually enter a positive feedback loop of successive self-improvement cycles more intelligent generations would appear more and more rapidly, causing an explosive increase in intelligence that culminates in a powerful superintelligence, far surpassing human intelligence. Prominent technologists and academics dispute the plausibility of a technological singularity and associated artificial intelligence explosion, including Paul Allen, Jeff Hawkins, John Holland, Jaron Lanier, Steven Pinker, Theodore Modis, Gordon Moore, and Roger Penrose. One claim is that artificial intelligence growth is likely to run into decreasing returns instead of accelerating ones. Stuart J. Russell and Peter Norvig observe that in the history of technology, improvement in a particular area tends to follow an S curve: it begins with accelerating...
An AI takeover is a theorized future event, often depicted in fiction, in which autonomous artificial intelligence systems acquire the capability to supersede human decisions. This could occur through economic manipulation, infrastructure control, or direct intervention, leading to de facto governance. Scenarios range from gradual economic dominance, as automation supplants the human workforce, up to a sudden or aggressive global takeover by a robot uprising or other forms of rogue AI. Stories of AI takeovers have been popular throughout science fiction. Commentators argue that recent advancements in the field have heightened concern about such scenarios. In public debate, prominent figures such as Stephen Hawking have advocated research into precautionary measures to ensure future superintelligent machines remain under human control.  Automation of the economy  The traditional consensus among economists has been that technological progress does not cause long-term unemployment. While technologies have historically replaced some traditional workers, they have also created new opportunities. However, recent innovation in the fields of robotics and artificial intelligence has...
This article contains a chronological list of notable films which included artificial intelligence either as a protagonist or as an essential part of the film.  1920s-1960s   1970s   1980s   1990s   2000s   2010s   2020s   See also  Artificial intelligence in fiction  References 
The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence is an international scientific society devoted to promote research in, and responsible use of, artificial intelligence . AAAI also aims to increase public understanding of AI, improve the teaching and training of AI practitioners, and provide guidance for research planners and funders concerning the importance and potential of current AI developments and future directions.  History  The organization was founded in 1979 under the name American Association for Artificial Intelligence and changed its name in 2007 to Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. It has in excess of 4,000 members worldwide. In its early history, the organization was presided over by notable figures in computer science such as Allen Newell, Edward Feigenbaum, Marvin Minsky and John McCarthy. Since July 2022, Francesca Rossi has been serving as president. She will serve as president until July 2024 when president-elect Stephen Smith will begin his term.  Conferences and publications  The AAAI provides many services to the Artificial Intelligence community. The AAAI sponsors many conferences and symposia each...
Artificial intelligence marketing is a form of marketing that uses artificial intelligence concepts and models such as machine learning, natural language processing, and computer vision to achieve marketing goals. The main difference between AI marketing and traditional forms of marketing reside in the reasoning, which is performed through a computer algorithm rather than a human. Each form of marketing has a different technique to the core of the marketing theory. Traditional marketing directly focuses on the needs of consumers meanwhile some believe the shift AI may cause will lead marketing agencies to manage consumer needs instead. AI is used in various digital marketing spaces, such as content marketing, email marketing, online advertisement , social media marketing, affiliate marketing, and beyond.  Historical development  AI in marketing has a long history, which goes all the way back to the 1980s. At this time, AI research was focusing on expert systems and robotics. Despite the initial research and the studies that were carried out, AI adoption remained limited. Research on it came to a stop for a while, until research...
The International Olympiad in Artificial Intelligence is an annual International Science Olympiad in the field of artificial intelligence for secondary education students under the age of 20. The first IOAI was held in Burgas, Bulgaria, in 2024. The competition includes an Individual Contest covering areas such as machine learning, NLP and computer vision, as well as separate Team Challenge. Each country or territory may send up to two teams, each consisting of up to four students supported by one leader. Participants are selected through a multi-stage National Olympiad in Artificial Intelligence andor a Regional Olympiad such as the NAOAI or APOAI. Participants at the IOAI compete on an individual basis. The Olympiad has expanded substantially since its first edition. Nearly 200 students participated in the inaugural competition in 2024, followed by more than 300 participants in Beijing in 2025. The third edition, held in Astana, Kazakhstan, from 2 to 8 August 2026, brought together 466 contestants representing 108 countries and territories and was described as the largest edition of the Olympiad to date. The fourth edition is scheduled to be held in Singapore...
The Mohamed Bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence is a public university in the Masdar City community of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. It was granted a university license by the UAE Ministry of Education in April 2020. The university launched its graduate programs in January 2021 and its undergraduate program in 2025.  History  The establishment of MBZUAI is part of the United Arab Emirates' strategy for Artificial Intelligence 2031. This policy seeks to position the country as a global AI leader, and included the appointment of the world's first Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence. Initiated in October 2019, the university was named after Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and the board of trustees was chaired by Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, while its advisory board was chaired by Omar Al Olama, the UAE's first Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence. The Ministry of Education accredited six MBZUAI graduate programs in February 2020 and granted a university license in April 2020. The initial class of graduate students were to start coursework in the fall of 2020, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic this was delayed to January 2021. At the time classes began...
Physical artificial intelligence or physical AI refers to artificial intelligence systems that perceive, reason about and act within the physical world. These systems generally combine AI models with sensors, control systems, actuators and physical machines such as robots or autonomous vehicles. Physical AI overlaps with embodied artificial intelligence, robotics and autonomous systems, but it emphasizes the complete process of perceiving an environment, motion planning an action and physically executing the task to perform work. This differs from digital AI or generative AI , which primarily stays in the information or digital realm. The term became increasingly prominent during the AI boom in the 2020s as AI development expanded from primarily digital applications toward humanoid robots, self-driving vehicles, smart factories and other autonomous machines. Its boundaries are not standardized, and it is often treated as a continuation of earlier research in robotics and embodied intelligence rather than an entirely separate field.  Operation  Physical AI systems commonly operate through a continuous cycle of perception, planning and action. Cameras, lidar, radar, microphones...
This is a list of artificial intelligence institutions, including independent, nonprofit, public, public-private, and government-backed research organizations focused on artificial intelligence, machine learning, AI safety, computer vision, natural language processing, robotics, and related fields. This list generally excludes university departments and commercial artificial intelligence companies. For university-affiliated centers, see List of university artificial intelligence research centers. For commercial companies, see List of artificial intelligence companies.  Artificial intelligence institutions   International  Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence  Austria  Austrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence  Canada  Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute Mila Vector Institute  China  Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence Beijing Institute for General Artificial Intelligence  Europe  Confederation of Laboratories for Artificial Intelligence Research in Europe European Artificial Intelligence Office European Association for Artificial Intelligence European Laboratory for Learning...
Generative engine optimization is the practice of structuring digital content and managing online presence to improve visibility in responses generated by generative artificial intelligence systems. The practice influences the way large language models retrieve, summarize, and present information in response to user queries. Related terms include answer engine optimization and artificial intelligence optimization . The concept of GEO first appeared in response to generative AI technologies being integrated into mainstream search and information retrieval systems.  Terminology  Several overlapping terms describe related practices, and usage varies across practitioners, vendors, and publications. No consensus definition distinguishing these terms had been established in the academic literature as of early 2026, and the terms are frequently used interchangeably in trade and practitioner contexts. Other terms for the same concept include answer engine optimization , large language model optimization , artificial intelligence optimization , and AI SEO. In 2026, Google released documentation titled Optimizing your website for generative AI...
Since 2006, the Chinese government has steadily developed a national agenda for artificial intelligence development and emerged as one of the leading nations in artificial intelligence research and development. In 2016, the Chinese Communist Party released its 13th Five-Year Plan in which it aimed to become a global AI leader by 2030. Since the AI boom from 2022, China is a world leader in AI technology alongside the United States. The State Council has a list of national AI teams including fifteen China-based companies, including Baidu, Tencent, Alibaba, SenseTime, and iFlytek. Each company should lead the development of a designated specialized AI sector in China, such as facial recognition, softwarehardware, and speech recognition. China's rapid AI development has significantly impacted Chinese society in many areas, including the socio-economic, military, intelligence, and political spheres. The private sector, university laboratories, and the military are working collaboratively in many aspects as there are few current existing boundaries. In 2021, China published the Data Security Law of the People's Republic of China, its first national law addressing AI-related ethical...
In artificial intelligence, a foundation model , also known as large x model LxM, where x is a variable representing any text, image, sound, etc., is a machine learning or deep learning model trained on vast datasets so that it can be applied across a wide range of use cases. Generative AI applications like large language models are common examples of foundation models. Building foundation models is often highly resource-intensive, with the most advanced models costing hundreds of millions of dollars to cover the expenses of acquiring, curating, and processing massive datasets, as well as the compute power required for training. These costs stem from the need for sophisticated infrastructure, extended training times, and advanced hardware, such as graphics processing units. In contrast, adapting an existing foundation model for a specific task or using it directly is far less costly, as it uses pre-trained capabilities and typically requires only fine-tuning on smaller, task-specific datasets. Early examples of foundation models are language models like OpenAI's GPT series and Google's BERT. Beyond text, foundation models have been developed across a range of modalities...
Generative artificial intelligence dependency is an emerging artificial intelligence disorder where users have a compulsive reliance on AI tools for tasks involving creativity, critical thinking, and emotional support. The excessive offloading of individual agency to AI may stunt psychosocial development and critical thinking.  See also  Digital media use and mental health AI-induced psychosis Deaths linked to chatbots AI anthropomorphism  References 
Lothar Vogt is a German chess FIDE Grandmaster , two-time East Germany Chess Championship winner , European Team Chess Championship team bronze medal winner .  Biography  In 1968, Lothar Vogt won the East Germany Youth Chess Championship. In the 1970s and 1980s, he was one of the leaders in East Germany chess, winning two gold medals in East Germany Chess Championships. He has appeared in many international chess tournaments, with successes including in Warsaw , Zinnowitz , Star Smokovec 1972, shared 1st-2nd place and 1979, shared 1st-2nd place, Leipzig , Kecskemt , Naczw , Polanica-Zdrj 1982, shared 1st-2nd place in Rubinstein Memorial and in Valby, . In 2002, Lothar Vogt won the Open tournament in Leukerbad, while in 2006, he ranked 1st before Andrei Sokolov in Lenk. Lothar Vogt played for East Germany in the Chess Olympiads: In 1972, at the second reserve board in the 20th Chess Olympiad in Skopje , In 1988, at fourth board...
Delgrado School, also known as Washington Catlett School, is a historic school building located at Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina. It was built 1914, and is a one-story, Classical Revival style red brick building with a low-pitched gable and hip roof. Additions were made to the original building in 1924 , 1938 and 1953 . It was built as part of the Delgado Mill Village. The 1938 addition was built as a Public Works Administration project. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2001.  References 
Deir al-Asal al-Tahta is a Palestinian village in the Hebron Governorate, south of the West Bank. It is located 18 km southwest of the city of Hebron.  Population  In the 1961 census, under Jordanian rule, the village had a population of 248, and in the 2017 census, the population was 611.  History  All of Palestine, including Deir al-Asal al-Tahta, fell to the Ottoman Empire in 1517. In 1917, Deir al-Asal al-Tahta and the rest of Palestine fell to the British Army. In the early 1950s, Deir al-Asal al-Tahta came under Jordanian rule and was administratively part of the Hebron District. Deir al-Asal al-Tahta came under Israeli occupation after the 1967 Six-Day War. After the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, the village was administratively part of the Hebron Governorate. In 1998, the Deir al-Asal al-Tahta Village Council was established.  See also  Dura, Hebron Hebron Governorate  References   External links  Welcome To Dayr al-'Asal al-Tahta Survey of Western Palestine, Map 21: IAA, Wikimedia commons Deir al 'Asal at Tahta Village , ARIJ Deir al 'Asal at Tahta Village profile, ARIJ Aerial photo, ARIJ
Twice as Tall is the fifth studio album by Nigerian singer Burna Boy. It was released on 13 August 2020 by Spaceship Entertainment, Bad Habit, Atlantic Records and Warner Music. Recording sessions took place in 2020, with Burna Boy, American singer and songwriter Diddy and Burna Boy's mother Bose Ogulu serving as the record's executive producers. The album is a mixture of Afrobeats, Afrobeat, dancehall, pop and hip-hop. It was produced primarily by Telz, along with production from Rexxie, Timbaland and DJDS, among others. The album features guest appearances from Youssou N'Dour, Naughty by Nature, Sauti Sol, Chris Martin and Stormzy. Its lead single is Wonderful, released on 26 June 2020. At the 63rd ceremony of the Grammy Awards, Twice as Tall won Best Global Music Album.  Background and recording  Burna Boy recorded songs for Twice as Tall mainly in Ahoada, Nigeria over few months of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Due to the pandemic, Burna Boy and his co-executive producer Diddy worked together through virtual file transfers and Zoom calls, the latter providing voice-over intros for a few of the songs and musical input. Burna Boy told The New York Times, I've never picked...
The Defence Batteries were units of the Royal Artillery created for beach defence during World War II when the United Kingdom was threatened with invasion after the Dunkirk evacuation. Once they had served their purpose they were disbanded or converted into units of field artillery.  Home defence  After the British Expeditionary Force was evacuated from Dunkirk and the UK was threatened with invasion, a crash programme of installing coastal artillery batteries was implemented in the summer of 1940. Later, as the Home Defence strategy developed, the Royal Artillery formed a number of 'Defence Batteries' to deploy around the coastline for general beach defence. These were not part of the fixed defences of the RA's Coast Artillery branch covering the ports although it had long been the practice for garrison artillery units to be equipped with a handful of mobile guns, in addition to their primary fixed guns, for similar usage, nor were they included in the field forces under Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces, but equipped with whatever old direct-fire guns were available they freed up scarce field artillery from semi-static beach defence for the mobile counter-attack forces. Most...
Victor Bumbalo is an American actor and playwright.  Early life and education  Bumbalo graduated from the Masters Program in Theater at Bennington College. In New York City, Bumbalo became immersed in the off-Broadway and off-off Broadway theater scene. He directed the American premiere of Mrozek's The Enchanted Night and became the artistic director of the Soul and Latin Theater, one of the first successful street theaters. Their productions toured the streets of New York for four consecutive summers.  Career  As a gay man, he felt the need to put the lives of gay people on the stage. He wrote Kitchen Duty, produced by John Glines. Then came Niagara Falls, a comedy about a working-class family's reaction to their gay son and his lover arriving unexpectedly for his sister's wedding. This play has enjoyed a long life, playing in both mainstream and alternative theaters. In the 1980s, he received two MacDowell Fellowships and a Yaddo and Helene Wurlitzer Residency. Then the era of AIDS began. Almost everyone involved with Kitchen Duty died of the disease. Bumbalo volunteered with GMHC where he headed a team that took care of people with AIDS. He worked...
Madonna and Child with Saint Jerome and Saint John the Baptist is an oil-on-panel painting executed ca. 1492-1495 by the Italian Renaissance painter Cima da Conegliano, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington. A 1712 posthumous inventory of Giovanni Castelli's collection in Venice mentioned a painting showing the Virgin and Child, Saint John the Baptist and Saint Jerome, by Cima, on panel, usually identified with this painting. It is also included in an early 20th-century transcription of a 19th-century list of 29 works from the 1712 inventory, seemingly owned by a Venetian family before being dispersed little by little from 1884 onwards. The NGA also owns a 1940 letter asserting the work was owned by a Baron Marochetti, either the sculptor Carlo Marochetti or more probably since the work is not mentioned in an 1868 catalogue of Carlo's collection his son Baron Maurizio Marochetti, of Turin, Italy's Russian ambassador. Ellis Waterhouse also writes that it was once owned by the Orelli family, into which Maurizio married. It was then bought in 1919 by Edgar Vincent, 1st Baron D'Abernon and remained in his collection until at least 1925, before being bought by the...
Tsuenokochi No.1 Tameike Dam is an earthfill dam located in Yamaguchi prefecture in Japan. The dam is used for irrigation. The catchment area of the dam is 0.6 km2. The dam impounds about 2 ha of land when full and can store 126 thousand cubic meters of water. The construction of the dam was started on and completed in 1907.  References 
The Continuous Revolution Theory Chinese: , sometimes also translated as the theory of continuing revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat is an element of Maoism. This is often subsumed under the subject of the Cultural Revolution.  Overview  The Continuous Revolution Theory is rooted in Mao's thoughts regarding the nature of contradiction. He argues that, since contradictions within society between revolutionary and reactionary elements can be expected to continue for a long time, it is necessary to work continuously toward the progressive fulfillment of the revolutionary program. As Mao has written: Every difference in men's concepts should be regarded as reflecting an objective contradiction. Objective contradictions are in subjective thinking, and this process constitutes the contradictory movement of concepts, pushes forward the development of thought, and ceaselessly solves problems in man's thinking. The contention that contradiction is inherent to everything is thus taken to suggest that revolution must be continual if it is not to succumb to reactionary forces. The Continuous Revolution Theory is rooted in this fundamental insight regarding the nature...
Foxhall Alexander Parker Sr. was an officer in the United States Navy. He was Commander-in-Chief of the East India Squadron , commanded the Home Squadron, and was commander of the USS Constitution.  Biography  Parker was born in Rock Spring, Westmoreland County, Virginia. In 1814, he married Sarah Jay Bogardus , daughter of Robert Bogardus . They had eight children, including Foxhall A. Parker Jr. and William Harwar Parker , who were also prominent naval officers.  Career  Parker joined the Navy as a midshipman on January 1, 1808. During the War of 1812 he was captured at sea. He was commissioned lieutenant on March 9, 1813, commander on March 3, 1825, and captain on March 3, 1835. In 1821, he served in USS Constitution as first lieutenant, and he assumed command of her in 1842. Parker was appointed commander of the East Indian Squadron in 1843. While in this position he was involved with Caleb Cushing's mission to Macao where Parker and Cushing were two of the three signatories of the Treaty of Wanghia. Following his assignment with Cushing, he was sent to Europe in...
Josep Mara Tras de Bes i Serra was a Spanish politician of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia and the People's Party.  Biography  Born in Madrid on 19 November 1944, Tras de Bes was the grandson of fellow politician Josep Maria Trias de Bes i Gir. He studied law at the University of Barcelona and became a lawyer. He joined the CDC in 1977 and replaced Joan Rigol in the Congress of Deputies in 1980, representing the Barcelona constituency. He was fourth secretary of the Congress from 1982 to 1989 and fourth vice-president from 1989 to 1993. He announced his intention to not run for re-election in 1993 over disagreements with party leader Jordi Pujol. He officially left the CDC in 1995 after opposing the party's growing relationship with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. He joined the PP that September and re-entered the Congress of Deputies in 1996. However, he resigned that July and was replaced by Salvador Sanz Palacio after being named chairman of transportation company Trasmediterrnea. He left the company on 22 December 1999 in the midst of an internal crisis after the government had appointed a new CEO. In 2009, he announced...
Whyalla is a city in South Australia. Whyalla may also refer to:  Places in South Australia  Whyalla Airport Whyalla Conservation Park, a protected area Whyalla High School, a high school Whyalla railway line Whyalla railway station, a former railway station Whyalla Steelworks City of Whyalla, a local government area Electoral district of Whyalla, a former state electoral district  Ships  HMAS Whyalla HMAS Whyalla , a patrol boat HMAS Whyalla , a corvette  Organisations in South Australia  Whyalla Croatia, a soccer club Whyalla Football League, Australian rules football competition  See also  All pages with titles beginning with Whyalla All pages with titles containing Whyalla
C. Shannon Bacon is an American attorney, legal scholar, and jurist serving as a justice of the New Mexico Supreme Court.  Early life and education  Bacon was raised in North Valley, New Mexico. She earned a Bachelor of Arts from Creighton University in Omaha and a Juris Doctor from the Creighton University School of Law.  Career  After graduating from law school, Bacon returned to Albuquerque, where she was admitted to the State Bar of New Mexico in 1997. She was formerly partner at a pair of Albuquerque law firms and clerked under Judge A. Joseph Alarid at the New Mexico Court of Appeals. Bacon is an adjunct professor at the University of New Mexico School of Law, where she teaches courses on evidence and trial practice.  Judicial service   State district court  Bacon was appointed a Judge of the Second Judicial District Court in 2010, where she served until her elevation to the Supreme Court.  New Mexico Supreme Court  In December 2018, Bacon was one of fourteen applicants who applied for two upcoming vacancies on the Supreme Court. On January 11, 2019 the Nominating Commission submitted her name along with six others to fill the vacancies...
The Challenged Athletes Foundation , established in 1997, assists, supports, and provides opportunity to people with physical challenges, so that they can lead active lifestyles and compete in athletic events. It is founded in the belief that involvement in sports at any level increases self-esteem, encourages independence and enhances quality of life. The Foundation does this by providing funding for training, competition, rehabilitation, and equipment for the challenged athletes. The Challenged Athletes Foundation is divided into four different programs: Access for Athletes, Operation Rebound, Catch a Rising Star, and Project N.Ex.T., all of which focus on the betterment of disabled athletes, but vary in their target group. Access for Athletes is the flagship program of CAF.  History  Challenged Athletes Foundation was founded in 1997 in response to below-knee-amputee endurance racer Jim MacLaren who suffered an accident while competing in a triathlon. In June 1993, while competing in a triathlon in Orange County, California, MacLaren was on his bike when a van went through a closed intersection, hit the back of the bike and propelled him into a pole. When he arrived at the...
Nadeesha Gayanthi Murukkuwadura is a Sri Lankan badminton player. She was included in the national badminton team in 2006 and got the opportunity to represent Sri Lanka at the 2006 Asian Games competing in the women's singles and women's doubles events. Nadeesha Gayanthi also participated at the 2007 BWF World Championships representing Sri Lanka and competed in the women's doubles category pairing with Thilini Jayasinghe despite being knocked out of the first round. In 2008, she partnered Chandrika de Silva and emerged victorious in the women's doubles as a part of the Sri Lankan National Badminton Championships. Nadeesha Gayanthi also appeared for Sri Lanka at the 2014 Commonwealth Games by competing in the singles and doubles events.  Achievements   World Senior Championships  Mixed doubles  South Asian Games  Women's doubles  References   External links  Gayanthi Nadeesha at BWFBadminton.com Gayanthi Nadeesha at BWF.TournamentSoftware.com Nadeesha Murukkuwadura at the Commonwealth Games Federation Nadeesha Murukkuwadura at the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games
Kwaja Manchu: , romanized: Kwaja died 1649 was a Qing nobleman of the Irgen Gioro clan of the Plain Blue Banner. He was a son of Asan, a founding contributor to the Qing dynasty who held the hereditary title of First-Class Viscount. In 1644, Kwaja accompanied the Qing's main forces during their entry through Shanhai Pass and subsequent conquest of China proper. In December of the same year, he married a Gurun Princess, the sixth daughter of Hong Taiji, thereby becoming an imperial son-in-law . In 1648, he was punished for an unspecified offense. In 1649, the Gurun Princess died, and Kwaja himself died of illness one month later.  Citation 
Daniel Leburn Glover is an American actor and producer. He has received numerous accolades including the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the NAACP's President's Award, as well as nominations for five Emmy Awards and four Grammy Awards. Glover made his film acting debut in Escape from Alcatraz in 1979. He rose to fame in the late 1980s for playing Roger Murtaugh in the Lethal Weapon film series. Glover's other notable films include Places in the Heart , The Color Purple , Witness Silverado , To Sleep with Anger , Predator 2 , Grand Canyon , Bopha! , Angels in the Outfield , The Royal Tenenbaums , Saw , Dreamgirls , Shooter , Be Kind Rewind , 2012 , Death at a Funeral , Beyond the Lights , Sorry to Bother You , and The Last Black Man in San Francisco . He is known for his work in television, receiving four Primetime Emmy Award nominations for his roles as Nelson Mandela in the HBO television film Mandela , Joshua Deets in CBS western miniseries Lonesome Dove , Philip Marlowe...
Feminist archaeology employs a feminist perspective in interpreting past societies. It often focuses on gender, but also considers gender in tandem with other factors, such as sexuality, race, or class. Feminist archaeology has critiqued the uncritical application of modern, Western norms and values to past societies. It is additionally concerned with increasing the representation of women in the discipline of archaeology, and reducing androcentric bias within the field. Feminist archaeology has expanded in recent years to include intersectional analyses, such as Black Feminist archaeology, Indigenous archaeology, and post-colonial archaeology. It also began to pay more attention to household studies, the study of masculinity, and the study of sexuality.  Emergence of feminist archaeology  Feminist archaeology initially emerged in the late 1970s and early 80s, along with other objections to the epistemology espoused by the processual school of archaeological thought, such as symbolic and hermeneutic archaeologies. Margaret Conkey and Janet Spector's 1984 paper Archaeology and the Study of Gender summed up the feminist critique of the discipline at that time: that archaeologists...
Archaeology in Oceania is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering prehistoric and historic archaeology, especially concerning Australia, the islands of the Pacific Ocean, and the western Pacific Rim. The journal is published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Oceania Publications. It was originally published by the University of Sydney. The editor-in-chief is J. Peter White. It is indexed in Anthropological Literature, Scopus, Arts and Humanities Citation Index, and Social Sciences Citation Index. The journal is associated with Oceania, published by the same publisher and covering ethnographic research in the area.  External links  Official website
The Levant is a subregion of West Asia along the Eastern Mediterranean that forms part of the Middle East. The term is often used in conjunction with historical or cultural references. In its narrowest sense, used in archaeology and other contexts, the Levant refers to Cyprus and land bordering the Levantine Sea in West Asia that includes Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, Israel, and south Cilicia . In its widest historical sense, the Levant included all the Eastern Mediterranean extending from Greece to Egypt and Cyrenaica . The Levantine corridor represents the land bridge between Africa and Eurasia, has been described as the crossroads of West Asia, Eastern Mediterranean, and Northeast Africa, and geologically as the northwest of the Arabian plate. In the 13th and 14th centuries, levante was used for Italian maritime commerce in the Eastern Mediterranean, including Greece, Anatolia, Syria-Palestine, and Egypt, that is the lands east of Venice. It derives from the Italian levante, meaning rising, implying the rising of the Sun in the east, and is broadly equivalent to the Mashriq, meaning eastern place, where the Sun rises. Eventually...
Africa has the longest record of human habitation in the world. The first hominins emerged 6-7 million years ago, and among the earliest anatomically modern human skulls found so far were discovered at Omo Kibish,Jebel Irhoud, and Florisbad. European archaeology, as well as that of North Africa, is generally divided into the Stone Age comprising the Lower Paleolithic, the Middle Paleolithic, the Upper Paleolithic, the Mesolithic, and the Neolithic, the Bronze Age, and the Iron Age. For Africa south of the Sahara, African archaeology is classified in a slightly different way, with the Paleolithic generally divided into the Early Stone Age, the Middle Stone Age, and the Later Stone Age. After these three stages come the Pastoral Neolithic, the Iron Age and then later historical periods. Africa's prehistory has been largely ignored, with the exception of research into early human evolution. However, it is overseen by the PanAfrican Archaeological Association, whose members consist of professional archaeologists from all over Africa.  Challenges and limitations  African archaeology faces a range of environmental, demographic, and institutional challenges that contribute to uneven...
The archaeology of China is researched intensively in the universities of the region and also attracts considerable international interest on account of the region's civilizations. Scholar-officials during the Song dynasty who took up antiquarian pursuits were the first to systematically analyze objects and monuments from China's antiquity. The application of modern scientific archaeology to Chinese sites began in 1921, when Johan Gunnar Andersson first excavated the Yangshao Village sites in Henan. Andersson believed that prehistoric Chinese culture had a Western Origin. In fact, most archaeologists at that time believed that all human civilizations, including Chinese, originated in the broader Middle East and then spread to different regions of the world. This statement caused an uproar in China. Chinese archaeologists hope to find evidence to refute this argument, which has led to a series of Chinese-led archaeological projects. Excavations from 1928 at Anyang, also in northern Henan, by the newly formed Academia Sinica by anthropologist Li Ji uncovered a literate civilization identified with the late stages of the Shang dynasty of early Chinese records. Earlier cities...
The decade of the 1740s in archaeology involved some significant events.  Explorations   Excavations  1748: Jeong Ji-hae, a Yangban and father of the Governor of Jinju, excavates six Goryeo Dynasty tombs of individuals whom Jeong thought may have been his ancestors, and thus becomes the first archaeologist in Korea.  Finds  1743: The Barkway hoard of Roman objects is found in Hertfordshire, England. 1747: The mummified remains known as Amcotts Moor Woman, a bog body, is unearthed from a peat bog in Lincolnshire, England. 1747: Substantial remains of the Temple of Apollo are discovered in Mdina, Malta. Many of the ruins are dispersed among private collections. 1747: Capheaton Treasure, a Roman silver hoard, is found in Northumberland, England. Some of it is melted down. 1748: Pompeii rediscovered as the result of formal excavations by Spanish military engineer Rocque Joaquin de Alcubierre. 1749: Stabiae rediscovered by Joaquin de Alcubierre.  Publications  1740: Nicholas Mahudel's Les Monumens les plus anciens de l'industrie des hommes, des Arts et reconnus dans les pierres de Foudres, by the Acadmie des inscriptions et belles-lettres. William Stukeley...
Located on the strategic crossroads of Iran, India, China and Central Asia, Afghanistan boasts a diverse cultural and religious history. The soil is rich with archaeological treasures and art that have for decades come under threat of destruction and damage. Archaeology of Afghanistan, mainly conducted by British and French antiquarians, has had a heavy focus on the treasure filled Buddhist monasteries that lined the silk road from the 1st c. BCE - 6th c. AD. Particularly the ancient civilizations in the region during the Hellenistic period and the Kushan Empire. The world's oldest-known oil paintings, dating to the 7th c. AD, were found in caves in Afghanistan's Bamiyan Valley. The valley is also home to the famous Buddhas of Bamiyan. Many of these valuable artefacts are either stored in the National Museum of Afghanistan or continue to be uncovered in the field. Unfortunately they face serious threat of destruction and damage as a result of illegal trade, looting and the Taliban. The extremist religious group came to power in 1996, and ordered the destruction of many precious artefacts. The group's recent seizure of control once again in 2021 has put many cultural heritage experts...
Pakistan contains many of the oldest archaeological discoveries of the world. The country is home to many archaeological sites dating from Lower Paleolithic period to Mughal Empire. The earliest known archaeological findings belong to the Soanian culture from the Soan Valley, near modern-day Islamabad. Soan Valley culture is considered as the best known Palaeolithic culture of Central Asia. The Mehrgarh culture was amongst the first cultures in the world to establish agriculture and livestock and live in villages. Mehrgarh civilization lasted for 5000 years till 2000 BCE after which people migrated to other areas, possibly Harappa and Mohenjo-daro. Harappa and Mohenjo-daro are the best known sites from the Indus Valley civilization . The earliest evidence of civilization in Pakistan can be found on the west banks of the Bolan River and the plains of Kachhi at Mehrgarh. Artifacts found in a 1979 excavation by the Pakistan Archaeology department and a team of French archaeologists can be dated back to 7000 BC. They were able to divide the Mehrgarh culture into three categories: Mehrgarh Period I- 7000 to 5500 BC, was an aceramic settlement with primitive means of agriculture...
In archaeology, survey or field survey is a type of field research by which archaeologists search for archaeological sites and collect information about the location, distribution and organization of past human cultures across a large area e.g. typically in excess of one hectare, and often in excess of many km2. Archaeologists conduct surveys to search for particular archaeological sites or kinds of sites, to detect patterns in the distribution of material culture over regions, to make generalizations or test hypotheses about past cultures, and to assess the risks that development projects will have adverse impacts on archaeological heritage. Archaeological surveys may be: intrusive or non-intrusive, depending on the needs of the survey team and the risk of destroying archaeological evidence if intrusive methods are used and extensive or intensive, depending on the types of research questions being asked of the landscape in question. Surveys can be a practical way to decide whether or not to carry out an excavation as a way of recording the basic details of a possible site, but may also be ends in themselves, as they produce important...
This is a list of articles covering the archaeology of present-day nations, states, and dependencies. Countries are listed in bold under their respective pages, whereas territories and dependencies are not. Disputed and unrecognized countries are italicized.  A  Archaeology of Afghanistan - Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Archaeology of Albania - Republic of Albania Archaeology of Algeria - People's Democratic Republic of Algeria Archaeology of Andorra - Principality of Andorra Archaeology of Angola - Republic of Angola Archaeology of Antigua and Barbuda - Antigua and Barbuda Archaeology of Argentina - Argentine Republic Archaeology of Armenia - Republic of Armenia Archaeology of Aruba - Aruba Archaeology of Australia - Australia Archaeology of Austria - Republic of Austria Archaeology of Azerbaijan - Republic of Azerbaijan  B  Archaeology of the Bahamas - Commonwealth of The Bahamas Archaeology of Bahrain - Kingdom of Bahrain Archaeology of Bangladesh - People's Republic of Bangladesh Archaeology of Barbados - Barbados Archaeology of Belarus - Republic of Belarus Archaeology of Belgium - Kingdom of Belgium Archaeology of Belize...
The archaeology of the Holocaust is the study of material remains linked to the Holocaust. This research was initiated at Nazi extermination camps in Central Europe, but has since been applied across Europe in locations linked to Nazi atrocities and war crimes, as well as in locations where Jewish life and culture was affected during World War II.  Development  Study of the Holocaust is particular within archaeology as it covers an event of the modern period, and began when persons with direct experience of the events studied were still alive. Although Nazi extermination camps were captured and liberated by the Soviet Red Army in 1943-1945 on the Eastern Front of World War II, the full extent of the Holocaust was obscured by attempts to hide and disguise evidence of mass murder. Judicial investigations linked to the trials for crimes against humanity of Nazis and collaborators studied material evidence of the Holocaust in the 1940s. However these were not performed using archaeological methods and techniques. While some sites linked to the Holocaust and Nazi war crimes have been designated memorials or museums, Caroline Sturdy Colls estimated in 2011 that the majority of sites...
The decade of the 1600s in archaeology involved some significant events.  Events  c.1600: The Savile Map of Bath, England is drawn discovered in 1977 by Anne Campbell Mcinnes. 1603: In Holland, Frederik de Houtman publishes a grammar and dictionary of Malay and Malagasy, along with a treatise describing the constellations of the southern hemisphere. 1609: A Dutch VOC ship built in 1601 or 1602, and loaded with 18000 zinc ingots, is wrecked in 1609 off Gabon, West Africa discovered in 1985, excavated by Michel L'Hour.  Births  c.1600: Famiano Nardini, Italian archaeologist 1602: John Greaves, English mathematician, astronomer and antiquary 1602: May 2 - Athanasius Kircher, German scholar  References 
The Istanbul Archaeology Museums are a group of three archaeological museums located in the Eminn quarter of Istanbul, Turkey, near Glhane Park and Topkap Palace. These museums house over one million objects from nearly all periods and civilizations in world history. The Istanbul Archaeology Museums consists of three museums: Archaeological Museum, located in the main building Museum of the Ancient Orient Museum of Islamic Art, housed in the Tiled Kiosk  Background  The origins of the museum can be traced back to the nearby Hagia Irene Church. After the conquest of Istanbul, the church's location close to the barracks of the Janissaries saw it transformed into a de facto 'inner arsenal' for storing their weapons . By 1726, during the reign of Sultan Ahmed III, it functioned as a full-fledged armory known as Dar-l Esliha . By the 19th century, the church was also being used to store the varied artifacts amassed by the Ottoman Empire. The Ottoman Sultan Abdlaziz was impressed by the archaeological museums in Paris , London and Vienna...
World Archaeology is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering all aspects of archaeology. It was established in 1969 and originally published triannually by Routledge  Kegan Paul. In 2004 it changed to a quarterly publication schedule while remaining under the Routledge imprint. Each of the year's first three issues within a volume are dedicated to specific individual themes and topics within archaeology, and contributions address the topic from a variety of perspectives. The fourth and last issue of the year has been given over to coverage of current debates within archaeology, in which papers discuss significant issues and global concerns in the field.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in:  External links  Official website
Southwestern archaeology is a branch of archaeology concerned with the Southwestern United States and Northwestern Mexico. This region was first occupied by hunter-gatherers, and thousands of years later by advanced civilizations, such as the Ancestral Puebloans, the Hohokam, and the Mogollon. This area, identified with the current states of Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, and Nevada in the western United States, and the states of Sonora and Chihuahua in northern Mexico, has seen successive prehistoric cultural traditions for at least of 12,000 years. An often-quoted statement from Erik Reed defined the Greater Southwest culture area as extending north to south from Durango, Mexico, to Durango, Colorado, and east to west from Las Vegas, Nevada, to Las Vegas, New Mexico. Differently areas of this region are also known as the American Southwest, North Mexico, and Oasisamerica, while its southern neighboring cultural region is known as Aridoamerica or Chichimeca. Many contemporary cultural traditions exist within the Greater Southwest, including Yuman-speaking peoples inhabiting the Colorado River valley, the uplands, and Baja California, O'odham peoples of Southern Arizona...
A geographic information system consists of integrated computer hardware and software that store, manage, analyze, edit, output, and visualize geographic data. Much of this often happens within a spatial database however, this is not essential to meet the definition of a GIS. In a broader sense, one may consider such a system also to include human users and support staff, procedures and workflows, the body of knowledge of relevant concepts and methods, and institutional organizations. The uncounted plural, geographic information systems, also abbreviated GIS, is the most common term for the industry and profession concerned with these information systems. The academic discipline that studies these systems and their underlying geographic principles, may also be abbreviated as GIS, but the unambiguous GIScience is more common. GIScience is often considered a subdiscipline of geography within the branch of technical geography. Geographic information systems are used in multiple technologies, processes, techniques and methods. They are attached to various operations and numerous applications, that relate to: engineering, planning, management, transportlogistics, insurance, telecommunications...
In archaeology, the general meaning of horizon is a distinctive type of sediment, artefact, style, or other cultural trait that is found across a large geographical area from a limited time period. The term derives from similar ones in geology, horizon or marker horizon, but where these have natural causes, archaeological horizons are caused by humans. Most typically, there is a change in the type of pottery found and in the style of less frequent major artefacts. Across a horizon, the same type of artefact or style is found very widely over a large area, and it can be assumed that these traces are approximately contemporary.  General  The term is used to denote a series of stratigraphic relationships that constitute a phase or are part of the process of determining the archaeological phases of a site. An archaeological horizon can be understood as a break in contexts formed in the Harris matrix, which denotes a change in epoch on a given site by delineation in time of finds found within contexts. An example of a horizon is the dark earth horizon in England, which separates Roman artefacts from medieval artefacts and which may indicate the abandonment of urban areas in Roman Britain...
The decade of the 1760s in archaeology involved some significant events.  Explorations  1764: First systematic mapping of the Antonine Wall by William Roy.  Excavations  Formal excavations continue at Pompeii. 1757: Rev. Bryan Faussett begins excavations at Anglo-Saxon cemeteries in Kent, England.  Finds  1761-1767: Carsten Niebuhr transcribes the cuneiform inscriptions at Persepolis. 1765: Nathaniel Davison discovers a stress-relieving chamber above the Kings chamber in the Great Pyramid of Giza.  Publications  1762: James Athenian Stuart and Nicholas Revett's Antiquities of Athens. 1764: Robert Adam's Ruins of the Palace of the Emperor Diocletian at Spalatro in Dalmatia. Johann Joachim Winckelmann's Geschichte der Kunst des Alterthums .  Other events  1764: French scholar Jean-Jacques Barthlemy deciphers the Phoenician language using the inscriptions on the Cippi of Melqart from Malta.  Births  1760: January 6 - Richard Polwhele, Cornish antiquarian June 8 - Karl Bttiger, German archaeologist 1763: November 19 - Karl Ludwig Fernow, German art critic and archaeologist Samuel Lysons...
The decade of the 1640s in archaeology involved some significant events.  Explorations  1649: John Aubrey describes the megaliths at Avebury, England.  Excavations   Finds   Publications  1643: Athanasius Kircher, Lingua Aegyptiaca Restituta. 1646: John Greaves, Pyramidographia, or a Description of the Pyramids in gypt.  Events   Births  1646: April 4 - Antoine Galland . 1647: Jacques Spon, French doctor and archaeologist .  Deaths   References 
In archaeology, a phase refers to the logical reduction of contexts recorded during excavation to nearly contemporary archaeological horizons that represent a distinct phase of previous land use. These often but not always will be a representation of a former land surface or occupation level and all associated features that were created into or from this point in time. A simplified description of phase would be that a phase is a view of a given archaeological site as it would have been at time . Examples of phases that would have no associated occupation surfaces are phases of a site that have been horizontally truncated by later phases and only elements surviving of the truncated phase are those that were below ground level and the subsequent truncation at that time. Subsequent or earlier phases are representations in changing occupation patterns and land use over time. Phase is an extremely important concept in archeological excavation and post-excavation work. Phasing is achieved by compiling smaller groups of contexts together through the use of stratification and stratigraphic excavation into ever larger units of understanding. The terminology of these sub-units or collections...
In archaeology, geophysical survey is ground-based physical sensing techniques used for archaeological imaging or mapping. Remote sensing and marine surveys are also used in archaeology, but are generally considered separate disciplines. Other terms, such as geophysical prospection and archaeological geophysics are generally synonymous.  Overview  Geophysical survey is used to create maps of subsurface archaeological features. Features are the non-portable part of the archaeological record, whether standing structures or traces of human activities left in the soil. Geophysical instruments can detect buried features when their physical properties contrast measurably with their surroundings. In some cases individual artifacts, especially metal, may be detected as well. Readings taken in a systematic pattern become a data set that can be rendered as image maps. Survey results can be used to guide excavation and to give archaeologists insight into the patterning of non-excavated parts of the site. Unlike other archaeological methods, geophysical survey is neither invasive nor destructive. For this reason, it is often used where preservation is the goal,...
The decade of the 1680s in archaeology involved some significant events.  Explorations   Excavations  1685: Dolmen at Borger, Netherlands, excavated by Titia Brongersma.  Finds   Publications  1685: Jacob Spon - Miscellanea eruditae antiquitatis  Events  1683: June 6 - The Ashmolean Museum opens in Oxford. The Rev. Robert Huntington donates the limestone false door stele of Shery from Saqqara , one of the first large Middle Eastern sculptures seen in Western Europe. 1687: An explosion destroys part of the Parthenon.  Births  1685: approximate date - John Horsley, English archaeologist 1687: November 7 - William Stukeley, English antiquarian  Deaths  1680: November 28 - Athanasius Kircher, German scholar 1689: November 26 - Marquard Gude, German archaeologist  References 
Below are notable events in archaeology that occurred in 1851.  Excavations  Some excavation at Susa by William Loftus, who identifies the location.  Publications  J. Collingwood Bruce's The Roman Wall: a historical, topographical, and descriptive account of the barrier of the lower isthmus, extending from the Tyne to the Solway. Mariano Eduardo de Rivero y Ustriz and Johann Jakob von Tschudi's Antigedades peruanas, published in Vienna, the first scientific work on Peruvian archaeology. Daniel Wilson's The Archaeology and Prehistoric Annals of Scotland, which introduces the word prehistoric into the English archaeological vocabulary.  Miscellaneous  John Disney endows the Disney Professorship of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge, first held by John Howard Marsden  Births  29 June: Jane Dieulafoy, born Jeanne Magre, French archaeologist, excavator of Susa, explorer, novelist and journalist 8 July: Arthur Evans, English archaeologist best known for discovering the palace of Knossos on Crete  References 
Archaeology of Scandinavia is the study of human prehistory and early history in the region comprising modern-day Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, as well as parts of Finland and Iceland. It encompasses cultural developments from the earliest human presence following the last Ice Age through the Viking Age and into the early medieval period.  History of research   Early antiquarianism  Interest in ancient monuments in Scandinavia dates back to the early modern period. During the 16th and 17th centuries, scholars and antiquarians documented runestones, burial mounds, and other monumental sites, often motivated by emerging national identities. In Sweden, state-sponsored antiquarian activity was institutionalized under the Swedish Crown, leading to one of the earliest heritage protection systems in Europe. Early figures such as Olaus Magnus described ancient customs and monuments however, their interpretations remained largely speculative. By the 18th century, antiquarian collections had expanded, and museums began to emerge, helping to establish the foundations of scientific archaeology.  Development of scientific archaeology  Modern archaeology in Scandinavia began in the early...
Indigenous archaeologies is a sub-discipline of archaeological practice that centers archaeology by, for, and with Indigenous people to critique the colonialist biases in modern archaeology. It actively recognizes the special rights, interests and responsibilities that Native people have in the realm of cultural heritage. Changes in practices under what is called indigenous archaeology may range from Indigenous peoples being consulted about archaeological research and the terms of non-Native researchers, to instances of Native-designed and directed exploration of their own heritage. Indigenous archaeology is not exclusive to Indigenous peoples. The practice of Indigenous archaeology provides non-Native people with a tool by which they may aid in the larger project of decolonization and reclamation of minority rights and identities. There is no singular paradigm which all practitioners follow, leading to the pluralization of the name. Methodologies can include, but are not limited to the use of intangible heritage in interpreting the material archaeological record, protective data sovereignty and Indigenous intellectual property rights, and community-led collaborative project frameworks...
The archaeology of Northern Europe studies the prehistory of Scandinavia and the adjacent North European Plain, roughly corresponding to the territories of modern Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Northern Germany, Poland, the Netherlands and Belgium. The region entered the Mesolithic around the 7th millennium BC. The transition to the Neolithic is characterized by the Funnelbeaker culture in the 4th millennium BC. The Chalcolithic is marked by the arrival of the Corded Ware culture, possibly the first influence in the region of Indo-European expansion. The Nordic Bronze Age proper began roughly one millennium later, around 1500 BC. The end of the Bronze Age is characterized by cultural contact with the Central European La Tne culture , contributing to the development of the Iron Age by the 4th century BC, presumably the locus of Common Germanic culture. Northern Europe enters the protohistorical period in the early centuries AD, with the adoption of writing and ethnographic accounts by Roman authors.  Periodization  The following is a refined listing of Northern European archaeological periods, expanded from the basic three-age system with finer subdivisions and extension into...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 734 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Chen Ying-git Chinese:  October 15, 1953 - August 12, 2026 was a singer of Taiwanese Hakka heritage. She produced albums from the 1980s through the 1990s like another singer, Jody Chiang. One of her famous songs was . She also sang a famous duet called  with Taiwanese male singer Yu Tian. Chen died on August 12, 2026, at the age of 72.  References   External links  Chen Ying-git discography at Discogs Ying-Chieh Chen at IMDb
Unity Version Control is a cross-platform commercial distributed version control tool developed by Cdice Software for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS , Linux, and other operating systems. It includes a command-line tool, native GUIs, diff and merge tool and integration with a number of IDEs. It is a full version control stack not based on Git .  Features  Unity Version Control is a full version control stack platform. It includes these components: Server Command line client GUIs Diff and merge tools Web GUI Web-based admin interface Some of its features include: Support for heavy branching and merging: According to its creators, Unity Version Control can handle unlimited branching and complex merge scenarios Visual Branch Explorer: A timeline to represent branches, merges and changes in repositories, implemented in all of its GUIs ACL-based security: Every object in the system can be secured with access control lists Built-in three-way merge and side-by-side diff including language-aware support and history of a specific method or function Directory versioning and support for versioning renames Revision history...
Window Maker is a free and open-source window manager for the  Window System. It emulates NeTSTEP's Look and feel as a GNUstep-compatible environment.  History  Window Maker was written from scratch primarily by Brazilian programmer Alfredo Kojima in 1997, originally intended to be used with the GNUstep desktop environment and as an improved take on the AfterStep window manager's design. The last release under the original developers was 0.92.0 in 2005. In 2012, Window Maker 0.95.1 was released by a new maintainer, Carlos R. Mafra, who had been maintaining a fork on Git.  Dockapps  Dockapps are small applications that run inside Window Maker's dock alongside application icons and are often used for monitoring applications, notification areas, and volume controls. Dockapps are also usable with other window managers, such as AfterStep and Blackbox. The Window Maker developers maintain a dockapp directory and a Git repository with dockapps whose original development has been abandoned.  WINGs  WINGs a recursive acronym for WINGs Is Not GNUstep is a lightweight widget toolkit designed for Window Maker to be used instead of GNUstep, as the latter was considered overkill...
The GIT Award was an annual English music prize recognising new and emerging music from Liverpool and the wider Merseyside region, awarded from 2012 to 2017. The award was established by the Liverpool-based music blog Getintothis in response to the revitalisation of the city's music scene following Liverpool's designation as European Capital of Culture in 2008. The award was described as a Scouse Mercury Prize by Getintothis editor Peter Guy ahead of its official launch in November 2011. This comparison was widely used throughout the award's existence, including in national media outlets such as BBC, The Guardian, and NME. The award was held annually for six editions however, no ceremony took place in 2018 or in subsequent years. While no official termination has been announced, Getintothis editor Peter Guy attributed the award's absence to declining arts funding, financial struggles for independent venues and festivals, and broader challenges within Liverpool's creative sector.  Winners and shortlisted nominees   Notes   See also  Music of Liverpool List of bands and artists from Merseyside Culture of Liverpool  References   External... 
The Linux kernel is a free and open-source Unix-like kernel that is used in many computer systems worldwide. The kernel was created by Linus Torvalds in 1991 and was soon adopted as the kernel for the GNU operating system , which was created to be a free replacement for Unix. Since the late 1990s, it has been included in many operating system distributions, many of which are called Linux. One such Linux kernel operating system is Android, which is used in many mobile and embedded devices. Most of the kernel code is written in C as supported by the GNU Compiler Collection , which has extensions beyond standard C. The code also contains assembly code for architecture-specific logic such as optimizing memory use and task execution. The kernel has a modular design such that modules can be integrated as software components - including dynamically loaded. The kernel is monolithic in an architectural sense since the entire OS kernel runs in kernel space. Linux is provided under the GNU General Public License version 2, although it contains files under other compatible licenses.  History  In 1991, Linus Torvalds was a computer science student enrolled at the University of Helsinki...
Quilt is a software utility for managing a series of changes to the source code of any computer program. Such changes are often referred to as patches or patch sets. Quilt can take an arbitrary number of patches as input and condense them into a single patch. In doing so, Quilt makes it easier for many programmers to test and evaluate the different changes amongst patches before they are permanently applied to the source code. Tools of this type are very important for distributed software development, in which many programmers collaborate to test and build a single large codebase. For example, quilt is heavily used by the maintainers of the Linux kernel. Quilt evolved from a set of patch-management scripts originally written by Linux kernel developer Andrew Morton, and was developed by Andreas Grnbacher for maintaining Linux kernel customizations for SuSE Linux. It is now being developed as a community effort, hosted at the GNU Savannah project repository and distributed as free software its license is the GNU General Public License v2, or later. Quilt's name originated from patchwork quilts. Quilt has been incorporated into dpkg, Debian's package manager, and is one of the...
Boss of Me is a song by American alternative rock band They Might Be Giants. It is best known as the opening theme for the television sitcom Malcolm in the Middle and was released as a single from the show's soundtrack in January 2001. The song entered the top 30 in Australia and the United Kingdom, while in the United States it peaked within the top 50 on two Radio  Records charts. In 2002, the song earned the band their first Grammy Award, winning Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media. It became one of the band's most commercially successful and widely recognized songs. An earlier version of the track featured the chorus Who's gonna guess the dead guy in the envelope and was written for a contest presented by the Preston  Steve radio show during their tenure at Y100.  Background  When Flansburgh and Linnell were asked to write the theme song for Fox's new pilot about three boys, Flansburgh thought of the half-finished Boss of Me with its high energy level. The show's creator, Linwood Boomer, helped persuade his network colleagues to choose the song, and also contributed the lyric Life is unfair.  Composition  Boss of...
Sharon Luk or Luk Sze-wan is a TVB actress. She is also Miss Hong Kong 2005 1st runner up.  Background  Growing up in a family of 2, Sharon was born in Hong Kong. Ever since she was young, Sharon wanted to be a pilot, but instead became a flight attendant with Korean Air and then Virgin Group. She entered the Miss Hong Kong 2005 pageant.  Miss Hong Kong 2005  After getting interviewed by TVB staff members, she made the top 40. She was in the acting group for Eric Tsang. Tsang chose her to be in the top 20 of the pageant. After 3 months of training and filming in Thailand and Sri Lanka, she competed on 20 August for the crown. At first she wasn't a favorite for the crown. However she had an excellent performance during the final night. Her top 10 interview was also interesting. Eventually she made the top 5 and won 2nd runner up.  Afterwards  After she won the 1st runner up, she signed a contract with TVB. She hosted E-Buzz and many charity shows. Many thought she would compete in the Miss World 2005 pageant. However, due to her being overage, Tracy Ip, Miss Hong Kong 2005, was sent instead to the pageant.  Filmography   Television series... 
Germn Snchez may refer to: Germn Snchez , Mexican race walker Germn Snchez , Spanish footballer Germn Snchez , Spanish racing driver Germn Snchez , Mexican diver German Snchez , Mexican Olympic skier  See also  Germn Sierra Snchez , Mexican politician
The King's Privy Council for Canada French: Conseil priv du Roi pour le Canada, sometimes called His Majesty's Privy Council for Canada or simply the Privy Council , is the full group of personal advisors to the King of Canada on state and constitutional affairs. Practically, the tenets of responsible government require the sovereign or his viceroy, the governor general, almost always to follow only that advice tendered by the Cabinet: a committee within the Privy Council composed usually of elected members of Parliament. Those summoned to the Privy Council are appointed for life by the governor general on the advice of the prime minister. The group is composed predominantly of former Cabinet ministers, with some others having been inducted as an honorary gesture. Privy counsellors are accorded the use of an honorific style and post-nominal letters, as well as various signifiers of precedence.  King-in-Council  The Government of Canada, which is formally referred to as His Majesty's Government, is defined by the Canadian constitution as the sovereign acting on the advice of the Privy Council what is known as the Governor-in-Council, referring to the governor general of...
Fayve was a digital entertainment distribution service founded and developed by Vulcan Technologies, LLC. It was launched on November 8, 2012, and ran as an app on iOS for iPad owners, on Google Play for Android Tablets and on Amazon for Kindle tablets. The app was a movie and TV show discovery tool that aggregated content from Netflix, Hulu, Hulu Plus, Amazon Prime, Amazon Instant, Redbox, YouTube, VUDU, Crackle, iTunes, FINITY, IndieFlix and Fandango into one library. It allowed users with accounts from those service providers to stream content from a single interface. Support for Fayve ended on November 16, 2014, and the app was removed from the app stores after a major streaming provider discontinued its data feed. Fayve was originally created for, and used by, Paul G. Allen, founder of Fayve's parent company, Vulcan, Inc., to navigate his own giant collection of films and movies. It was re-tooled and commercialized because of its broader market appeal. According to CNET, the name Fayve is both a reference to favorites and a homage to Allen's mother, Faye, who died in 2012.  Format  Fayve uses a rotating carousel to display content, allowing users to sort by genre...
The Bhirum Pony or Nigerian Pony is a Nigerian breed of pony or small horse. It developed in Nigeria's northern regions.  Characteristics  The Bhirum Pony is said to be descended from either the Poney Mousseye of Cameroon, or the Barb horse. They are thought to have been crossed with Nigerian ponies. The species are about 14 hands tall, and have been considered as a very handsome pony breed.  References 
Kaliachak is a town in the Kaliachak I CD block in the Malda Sadar subdivision of Malda district in the Indian state of West Bengal. Kaliachak consists of 4 Census Town Silampur, Karari Chandpur, Baliadanga and Alipur Kaliachak is one of the biggest commercial hub in Malda district as well as North Bengal for Agriculture Business along with many MSMEs Polymer Recycling, Raw Plastic Factories, Readymade Garments  and Hub of Private Residential Schools.  Geography   Location  Kaliachak is located on the bank of the Pagla River. 24.8635N 88.0187E  24.8635 88.0187  Area overview  The area shown in the adjoining map is the physiographic sub-region known as the diara. It is a relatively well-drained flat land formed by the fluvial deposition of newer alluvium. Its most noteworthy feature is the Farakka Barrage across the Ganges. The area is a part of the Malda Sadar subdivision, which is an overwhelmingly rural region, but the area shown in the map has pockets of urbanization with 17 census towns, concentrated mostly in the Kaliachak I CD block. The bank of the Ganges between Bhutni and Panchanandapur both the places are marked...
WHPE-FM is an FM radio station licensed to High Point, North Carolina, and serving the Piedmont Triad region of North Carolina, including Greensboro and Winston-Salem. The station broadcasts a Christian talk and teaching radio format and is owned by the Charlotte-based Bible Broadcasting Network, which has Christian stations around the U.S. National religious leaders heard on WHPE-FM include Adrian Rogers, Chuck Swindoll, Joni Eareckson Tada and J. Vernon McGee. WHPE-FM has an effective radiated power of 100,000 watts, the maximum for non-grandfathered FM stations. In addition, it feeds a network of FM translator stations in North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia.  History  WHPE-FM signed on in November 1947, months after its AM counterpart, WHPE . That makes WHPE-FM one of the oldest FM stations in North Carolina. Both stations were originally owned by the High Point Enterprise daily newspaper, from which the stations derived their call sign. The newspaper sold the stations in 1953. The stations aired Christian programming in the 1960s. For a brief time in the early 1970s, they switched to Top 40 hits. The Bible Broadcasting Network acquired WHPE...
Randall G. Hassell was the Chief Instructor for the American Shotokan Karate Alliance , Senior Editor of Tamashii Press, President of the American JKA Karate Association , and a Founding Fellow of the International Karate Society . Sensei Hassell began his study of the history and philosophy of martial arts in general while majoring in English Literature at Washington University in St. Louis. As a member of the Japan Karate Association , Sensei Hassell began karate training in 1960, becoming one of the first Americans to pioneer Shotokan karate and later introducing it to the St. Louis, Missouri area in 1961. Sensei Hassell later left the JKA in 1984 in order to help form an American counterpart to the JKA, the American JKA Karate Association. On 1 September 2002, he was voted and became President of the AJKA. In November 2000, Sensei Hassell received honors from many national, state, and local dignitaries in recognition of his 40 years of dedication to Shotokan karate. As a teacher, Sensei Hassell was known for his concentration on practical application of the fundamental principles of karate and for...
The Railway line Laupheim West - Schwendi in Germany connected the town of Laupheim with the then village of Schwendi. The railway line was opened by the Royal Wrttemberg State Railways on 17 May 1904. It branched off from the Ulm-Friedrichshafen railway. The length of the railway line was 16 km . The railway line had the classification number of 4510. The steam locomotive used on the line, received the nickname Rottalmolle by the local population, referring to the course of the railway line through the valley of the river Rot. The transport of passengers between the city station of Laupheim and Schwendi was discontinued on 23 May 1971, the transportation of goods on 28 September 1984. Afterwards the railway tracks were dismantled. Passenger trains on the part leading from Laupheim to Laupheim-West were discontinued on 27 May 1983. However, unlike the tracks leading to Schwendi, the tracks to Laupheim-West were left intact and re-opened on 30 May 1999 for public transport. Direct trains operate from Laupheim to Ulm Hauptbahnhof, without passengers having to change at Laupheim-West. Works to implement long-established plans for a new southern route, enabling...
Alfonso Basilio Ghetaldo, O.S.B. was a Roman Catholic prelate who served as Bishop of Stagno .  Biography  Alfonso Basilio Ghetaldo was born in Ragusa in 1647 and ordained a priest in the Order of Saint Benedict. On 19 July 1694, he was appointed during the papacy of Pope Innocent II as Bishop of Stagno. On 25 July 1694, he was consecrated bishop by Galeazzo Marescotti, Cardinal-Priest of Santi Quirico e Giulitta, with Prospero Bottini, Titular Archbishop of Myra, and Stefano Giuseppe Menatti, Titular Bishop of Cyrene, with serving as co-consecrators. He served as Bishop of Stagno until his death on 12 September 1702.  References 
Karl Astel was a German physician and Nazi Party member who became the rector of the University of Jena, and a racial scientist involved in the Nazi eugenics program.  Early life  Astel was born on 26 February 1898 in Schweinfurt, the son of the municipal police chief. During the First World War, he served in the Royal Bavarian Army from 1916 to 1918. He came into contact with the National Socialist movement at an early age, while studying medicine in Wrzburg. He became a member of the Freikorps Epp in 1919, and he participated in operations that repressed the Munich Soviet Republic. In 1920, he joined the Bund Oberland and took part in the Kapp Putsch, which tried to overthrow the recently established Weimar Republic. Astel also was a member of the Deutschvlkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund, the largest German antisemitic organization at the time, and the Militant League for German Culture. A committed Nazi, in his youth he was frequently involved in street fighting and, in November 1923, he was a participant in Adolf Hitler's failed Beer Hall Putsch. After completing his medical studies in 1930, Astel worked as a sports medicine physician at the...
gueda Marqus Muoz is a Spanish track and field athlete who competes primarily over 1500m on the track, but also competes as a cross-country runner.  Early life  From Segovia, Castile and Len, Marqus was a promising youngster, winning the silver medal in the 1000 metres for her age group at the Spanish championships in 2014. In February 2020 she was bronze medalist in the Spanish under-23 indoors championships over 3000m. She became the under-23 champion of Spain over 800 metres on 30 September 2020.  Career   Track  Marqus ran in the 1500m at the 2021 European Athletics Indoor Championships in Torun, Poland, and qualified for the final after running a personal best time of 4:09:94 in the heats. However, after finishing seventh in the final she was disqualified after the event for jostling. Marqus was selected for the 1500m at the 2022 European Athletics Championships. This came after she was runner-up to Marta Perez for the Spanish national 1500 metres title in June 2022. Marqus was runner-up to Esther Guerrero in the Spanish indoors national championships 1500m in February 2023. She qualified for the final of the 2023...
Karyorelictea is a class of ciliates in the subphylum Postciliodesmatophora. Most species are members of the microbenthos community, that is, microscopic organisms found in the marine interstitial habitat, though one genus, Loxodes, is found in freshwater. The majority of karyorelict taxa have not been cultivated in the laboratory, although clonal lines of Loxodes have been developed.  Systematics  According to Lynn , the Karyorelictea class is divided into three orders: Loxodida, containing the families Cryptopharyngidae and Loxodidae Protoheterotrichida, containing the families Aveliidae and Geleiidae Protostomatida, containing the families Kentrophoridae and Trachelocercidae. These three orders were defined morphologically, and have been confirmed with molecular phylogenetics. An additional family, Wilbertomorphidae, is of uncertain affiliation and has not been assigned to an order.  Nuclear dimorphism  All ciliates, including karyorelicteans, possess two different kinds of nucleus, which separate the functions of gene expression and sexual recombination. The macronuclei, or somatic nuclei, are the site of transcription, while the smaller micronuclei, or germline...
Holy See-Turkey relations are foreign relations between the Holy See and Turkey. Both countries established diplomatic relations in 1868, originally between the Holy See and the Ottoman Empire. The Holy See has a nunciature in Ankara. Turkey has an embassy in Rome.  History   Ottoman Empire  The Holy See has a history of difficult relations with Turkey, or rather with the Ottoman Empire, whose forces its European allies defeated at the naval battle of Lepanto in 1571 and the battle of Vienna in 1683. The Holy See maintained positive relations with Armenia, even when it was under Ottoman rule. It was also involved in the Balkans and Greece at a time when nationalities were emancipating themselves from Turkish domination.  Atatrk revolution  The Atatrk revolution did not really ease relations, since it led to the suppression of the millet system, which had previously guaranteed the rights of Christian minorities that were split in Byzantine, Latin, Armenian, Syriac and Greek-Melkite ethnic lines. This is in turn led to the assimilation of Turkey's Christian population into ethnic Turkish traditions and customs. Also, the Kemalist ideology was closely related to anticlericalism...
Rhamphomyia albidiventris is a species of dance flies, in the fly family Empididae. It is included in the subgenus Pararhamphomyia. It has a limited distribution. It has been recorded from Great Britain, Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Bosnia, Finland and central Russia.  References   External links  Fauna Europaea
Where Angels Fear to Tread is the third studio album by Mentallo  The Fixer, released on May 16, 1994, by Zoth Ommog Records. It is considered a favorite of the band's critics and audience.  Music  Where Angels Fear to Tread integrated gothic music into its sound, making its compositions sound more melancholy in contrast to the abrasive sound of the band's previous work. The album's music also made extensive use of you use of science fiction and horror film samples. The album was re-released by Metropolis Records on July 18, 1995, without additional content. In 2014, the album was issued as a music download by Alfa Matrix. The entire album was remastered and released as part of the Zothera box set on December 2, 2014.  Reception  Theo Kavadias of AllMusic says the progression in this third release points to a more refined and polished electronic sound that sacrifices none of the dark intensity or raw power established in previous releases. The critic went on to say there is more to Where Angels Fear to Tread than smoother synth voices playing out the complex, pulsing melodies and layered compositions for which Mentallo  the Fixer have become known and doomy, tortured...
Hindalco Industries Limited an Indian aluminium and copper manufacturing company, is a subsidiary of the Aditya Birla Group. Its headquarters are at Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. The company is listed in the Forbes Global 2000 at 661st rank. Its market capitalisation by the end of November 2023 was US15.6 billion.  History  The Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Limited was established in 1958 by the Aditya Birla Group. In 1962 the company began production in Renukoot in Uttar Pradesh making 20 thousand metric tons per year of aluminium and 40 thousand metric tons per year of alumina. In 1989 the company was restructured and renamed Hindalco. Ramdev Singh was the first trade union leader of Hindalco Industries Limited, Renukoot. On 20 February 2026, Hindalco Industries signed an MoU with Brazilian aerospace major Embraer, to explore and assess potential sources for aerospace-grade aluminium manufacturing in India.  Operations   Power plants  Renusagar Power Plant. An 826.57 MW 10 generating units of various capacities captive power plant which is about 40 km from Renukoot, Sonebhadra district, Uttar Pradesh. Hirakud Captive Power Plant. A 467.5 MW captive power plant...
Stoke-on-Trent, often known as Stoke, is a city and unitary authority area in Staffordshire, England. It had an estimated population of 259,965 in 2022, making it the largest settlement in Staffordshire and one of the largest cities of the Midlands. Stoke is surrounded by the towns of Alsager, Biddulph, Cheadle, Kidsgrove, Newcastle-under-Lyme and Stone, which form a conurbation around the city. The city is polycentric, formed from the federation of six towns in 1910. It took its name from the town of Stoke-upon-Trent, where the main centre of government and the principal railway station in the district were located. Hanley is the primary commercial centre. The other four towns which form the city are Burslem, Tunstall, Longton, and Fenton. As the home of the pottery industry in England, the area is known as The Potteries. It is a centre for service industries and distribution centres. It formerly had a primarily heavy industry sector.  Toponymy  The name Stoke is taken from the town of Stoke-upon-Trent, the original ancient parish, with other settlements being chapelries. Stoke derives from the Old English stoc, a word that at first meant little more than place, but which subsequently...
A conglomerate -rt is a type of multi-industry company that consists of several different and unrelated business entities that operate in various industries. A conglomerate usually is a parent company that owns and controls many subsidiaries, which are legally independent but financially and strategically dependent on the parent company. Conglomerates are often large and multinational corporations that have a global presence and a diversified portfolio of products and services. Conglomerates can be formed by merger and acquisitions, spin-offs, or joint ventures. Conglomerates are common in many countries and sectors, such as media, banking, energy, mining, manufacturing, retail, defense, and transportation. This type of organization aims to achieve economies of scale, market power, risk diversification, and financial synergy. However, they also face challenges such as complexity, bureaucracy, agency problems, and regulation. The popularity of conglomerates has varied over time and across regions. In the United States, conglomerates became popular in the 1960s as a form of economic bubble driven by low interest rates and leveraged buyouts. However, many of them collapsed...
Museum of Science and Industry may refer to:  United Kingdom  Museum of Science and Industry, Birmingham, England Science and Industry Museum, Manchester, England National Museum of Science and Industry, several British museums.  United States  Museum of Science and Industry , Illinois Museum of Science  Industry , Florida California Museum of Science and Industry, Los Angeles Oregon Museum of Science and Industry, Portland, Oregon.  See also  MOSI
The space industry of India is predominantly driven by its national space agency ISRO. The industry includes over 500 private suppliers and other various bodies of the Department of Space in all commercial, research and arbitrary regards. Since the Indian space sector was opened up to private sector in 2020, numerous private space companies have emerged, working on various aspects of space exploration. In 2023, the space industry of India accounted for US9 billion or 2-3 of the global space industry and employed more than 45,000 people. The Government of India projects industry to grow four to five times over the next 8-10 years, potentially reaching US40-45 billion, global share targeted to rise to 8 by 2030. As of 2025, India has launched 434 satellites for various foreign countries. There were more than 300 space startups in India in mid 2025 involved in various stages of developing their own launch vehicles, designing satellites and other allied activities. By 2026, the industry had expanded over 440 startups and over 500 public limited and state-owned companies.  History   Early decades  India's interest in space travel began in the early 1960s, when scientists...
The Industry Commission was a commission formed by the Australian government in 1990 to oversee industry matters. In 1998 with the passing of the Productivity Commission Act 1998 the bureau was merged with the Bureau of Industry Economics, and the Economic Planning Advisory Commission to create the Productivity Commission.  References 
A stunt performer, often called a stuntman or stuntwoman and occasionally stuntperson or stunt-person, is a trained professional who performs daring acts, often as a career. Stunt performers usually appear in films or on television, as opposed to a daredevil, who performs for a live audience. When they take the place of another actor, they are known as stunt doubles.  Overview  A stunt performer is an actor skilled in both choreographing and safely presenting actions on-screen that appear to be dangerous, risky, or even deadly. Stunts frequently performed include car crashes, falls from great height, drags , and the consequences of explosions. There is an inherent risk in the performance of all stunt work. There is maximum risk when the stunts are performed in front of a live audience. In filmed performances, visible safety mechanisms can be removed by editing. In live performances the audience can see more clearly if the performer is genuinely doing what they claim or appear to do. To reduce the risk of injury or death, most often stunts are choreographed or mechanically rigged so that, while they look dangerous, safety mechanisms are built into the...
The global market for chemicals from fluorine was about US16 billion per year as of 2006. The industry was predicted to reach 2.6 million metric tons per year by 2015. The largest market is the United States. Western Europe is the second largest. Asia Pacific is the fastest growing region of production. China in particular has experienced significant growth as a fluorochemical market and is becoming a producer of them as well. Fluorite mining was estimated in 2003 to be a 550 million industry, extracting 4.5 million tons per year. Mined fluorite is separated into two main grades, with about equal production of each. Acidspar is at least 97 CaF2 metspar is much lower purity, 60-85. A small amount of the intermediate, ceramic, grade is also made. Metspar is used almost exclusively for iron smelting. Acidspar is primarily converted to hydrofluoric acid . The resultant HF is mostly used to produce organofluorides and synthetic cryolite.  Inorganic fluorides  About 3 kg of metspar grade fluorite, added directly to the batch, are used for every metric ton of steel made. The fluoride ions from CaF2 lower the...
Referred to as The Boss, Bruce Springsteen is one of the best-selling music artists in history with over 150 million records sold as of December 2021. Billboard ranked him as the 24th Greatest Artist of all time. According to Recording Industry Association of America, he has sold 65.5 million albums in the United States, making him the 7th best-selling male soloist of all time. Born in the U.S.A., the best-selling album of his career, sold more than 30 million copies around the world. Springsteen has released records steadily since 1973, and is widely known for combining 1950s and 1960s rock 'n' roll musical styles with heartland rock, poetic lyrics, and American culture sentiments centered on his native New Jersey. The E Street Band has been Springsteen's primary backing band since 1972 and has appeared on a majority of his studio albums and live releases. Springsteen also released one studio and live album with the Sessions Band. Springsteen's recordings have tended to alternate between commercially accessible rock albums and somber folk-oriented works. His most commercially successful period occurred between 1975's Born to Run and 1987's Tunnel of Love. 1984's Born in the U.S...
The Ministry of Energy is a government ministry in Saudi Arabia and part of the cabinet. It is responsible for developing and implementing policies concerning petroleum and related products. The Ministry of Energy is working to diversify the national energy mix used in electricity production, increasing the share of natural gas and renewable energy sources to approximately 50 by 2030 while reducing the use of liquid fuel. In August 2019, King Salman issued a royal decree and divided the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources into two: Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources, and Ministry of Energy. While Khalid al-Falih still remained the energy minister, business executive Bandar Al-Khorayef was named as the minister of natural resources. However, on 8 September 2019, a royal decree was issued to appoint Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud as the energy minister. On 11 July 2026 he was appointed as Minister of Industry and Natural Resources in addition to his position as Minister of Energy.  History  The ministry was established in December 1960. Prior to the formation of the ministry policies regarding oil production and planning were overseen by the directorate...
Industry is an unincorporated community in Clay and Dickinson counties in the U.S. state of Kansas. It is located approximately 13 miles north of Abilene.  History  A post office was established at Lovejoy in 1873, and moved to Industry in 1876 where it remained in operation until it was discontinued in 1906.  Education  The community is served by Chapman USD 473 public school district in Dickinson County, and Clay County USD 379 in Clay County.  References   Further reading 
Kartan industry is the archaeological production, probably more than 10,000 years ago, of a large quantity of exceptionally large stone tools that were found on Karta, known since 1802 as Kangaroo Island, South Australia.  Archaeology of Karta   An island mystery  Kartan culture archaeology presents a puzzle, according to historian Rebe Taylor, who quotes the archaeologist Ronald Lampert: The problem had all the characteristics of a classic mystery story: a large offshore island without people , separated .. nearly 10,000 years ago, yet with abundant evidence of human population. Indeed, Lampert called his book The great Kartan mystery.  Heavy stone tools  James Kohen, in his book Aboriginal Environmental Impacts, describes the Aboriginal stone tool assemblage of Karta as heavy core tools and pebble choppers. Such Kartan tools are also, writes Kohen, found on the South Australian coast, the Flinders Ranges, and at Lime Springs in New South Wales. According to Kohen, the Kartan industry consists almost exclusively of large core tools, unifacially flaked pebble tools and hammerstones. The tools are very heavy, averaging around 900 grams, perhaps ten times the...
File sharing is the practice of distributing or providing access to digital media, such as computer programs, multimedia , documents or electronic books. Common methods of storage, transmission and dispersion include removable media, centralized servers on computer networks, Internet-based hyperlinked documents, and the use of distributed peer-to-peer networking. File sharing technologies, such as BitTorrent, are integral to modern media piracy, as well as the sharing of scientific data and other free content.  History  Files were first exchanged on removable media. Computers were able to access remote files using filesystem mounting, bulletin board systems , Usenet , and FTP servers . Internet Relay Chat and Hotline enabled users to communicate remotely through chat and to exchange files. The mp3 encoding, which was standardized in 1991 and substantially reduced the size of audio files, grew to widespread use in the late 1990s. In 1998, MP3.com and Audiogalaxy were established, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act was unanimously passed, and the first mp3 player devices were launched. In June 1999, Napster was released...
Nigeria is the largest oil and gas producer in Africa. Crude oil from the Niger Delta basin mostly comes in two types: light, and comparatively heavy - the lighter crude has API gravity of approximately 36 while the heavier crude has API gravity range 20-25. Both types are paraffinic and low in sulfur. Nigeria's economy and budget have been largely supported from income and revenues generated from the petroleum industry since 1960. Statistics as at February 2021 show that the Nigerian oil sector contributes to about 9 of the GDP of the nation. The need for holistic reforms in the petroleum industry, ease of doing business, encouragement of local content in the industry birthed the Petroleum Industry Bill, introduced by the Goodluck Jonathan administration on 18 July 2008.  History of oil exploration  The history of oil exploration in Nigeria goes back to 1903, when the Nigerian Bitumen Corporation conducted exploratory work in the country. At the onset of World War I, the firm's operations were stopped. Due to lack of technological and financial resources of small oil companies, large and strong other oil companies took over the exploration of commercial oil in the country. Thereafter...
Freight transport, also referred to as freight forwarding, is the physical process of transporting commercial products and merchandise goods and cargo. The term shipping originally referred to transport by sea but in American English, it has been extended to refer to transport by land or air as well. Logistics, a term borrowed from the military environment, is also used in the same sense.  History   Prehistoric era  Initial human civilization relied heavily on domesticated animals, such as horses, camels, and donkeys, to transport their goods. The invention of the wheel in Mesopotamia in 5000 B.C.E improved this efficiency by allowing for carts and carriages to be created, which animals could pull.  Classical era   Romans  The Romans built a vast network of roads, which facilitated trade across the numerous cities in its empire.  Silk Road  Transport along the silk road, a land-based route, was generally done through caravans, equipped with camels that would carry goods. It was uncommon for traders to traverse the entirety of the silk road - they would pass on their goods to other traders along different legs of the journey...
Manufacturing is the creation or production of goods with the help of equipment, labor, machines, tools, and chemical or biological processing or formulation. It is the essence of the secondary sector of the economy. The term may refer to a range of human activity, from handicraft to high-tech, but it is most commonly applied to industrial design, in which raw materials from the primary sector are transformed into finished goods on a large scale. Such goods may be sold to other manufacturers for the production of other more complex products such as aircraft, household appliances, furniture, sports equipment or automobiles, or distributed via the tertiary sector to end users and consumers usually through wholesalers, who in turn sell to retailers, who then sell them to individual customers. Manufacturing engineering is the field of engineering that designs and optimizes the manufacturing process, or the steps through which raw materials are transformed into a final product. The manufacturing process begins with product design, and materials specification. These materials are then modified through manufacturing to become the desired product. Contemporary manufacturing encompasses...
Insurance is a means of protection from financial loss in which, in exchange for a fee, a party agrees to compensate another party in the event of a certain loss, damage, or injury. It is a form of risk management, primarily used to protect against the risk of a contingent or uncertain loss. An entity which provides insurance is known as an insurer, insurance company, insurance carrier, or underwriter. A person or entity who buys insurance is known as a policyholder, while a person or entity covered under the policy is called an insured. The insurance transaction involves the policyholder assuming a guaranteed, known, and relatively small loss in the form of a payment to the insurer in exchange for the insurer's promise to compensate the insured in the event of a covered loss. The loss may or may not be financial, but it must always be reducible to financial terms. Furthermore, it usually involves something in which the insured has an insurable interest established by ownership, possession, or pre-existing relationship. The insured receives a contract, called the insurance policy, which details the conditions and circumstances under which the insurer will compensate the...
Industry Shakedown is the second studio album by American East Coast hip hop artist Freddie Foxxx, and his first release under his 'Bumpy Knuckles' alias. It was released on June 27, 2000, via KJAC Music and Landspeed Records, and was produced by DJ Premier, Pete Rock, Diamond D, the Alchemist, and Foxxx. It featured guest appearances from Afrika Bambaataa, M.O.P., Terisa Griffin, and DJ Rukas. The album peaked at number 179 on the Billboard 200. The first single was the DJ Premier-produced Part of My Life.  Track listing   Personnel  James F. Campbell - main artist, producer Eric Murray - featured artist Jamal Grinnage - featured artist Terisa Griffin - featured artist Lance Taylor - featured artist Peter O. Philips - producer Daniel Alan Maman - producer Christopher Edward Martin - producer Joseph Kirkland - producer Lloyd Price - executive producer Trevor Karma Gendron - art direction  design Lordz of Brooklyn - illustration  Charts   References   External links  Industry Shakedown at Discogs
Canning is a method of food preservation in which food is processed and sealed in an airtight container jars like Mason jars, and steel and tin cans. Canning provides a shelf life that typically ranges from one to five years, although under specific circumstances, it can be much longer. A freeze-dried canned product, such as canned dried lentils, could last as long as 30 years in an edible state. In 1974, samples of canned food from the wreck of the Bertrand, a steamboat that sank in the Missouri River in 1865, were tested by the National Food Processors Association. Although appearance, smell, and vitamin content had deteriorated, there was no trace of microbial growth and the 109-year-old food was determined to be still safe to eat.  History and development   Dutch Origins  The Dutch are noted as the first to tin food, their Navy being reported as carrying cleaned and brine-cooked salmon, in tin-plated iron boxes, as early as 1772.  French experiments  Shortly before the Napoleonic Wars, the French government offered a hefty cash award of 12,000 francs to any inventor who could devise a cheap and effective method of preserving large amounts of food to create well-preserved...
Television is a telecommunication medium for transmitting moving images and sound. Additionally, the term can refer to a physical television set rather than the medium of transmission. Television is a mass medium for advertising, entertainment, news, and sports. The medium is capable of more than radio broadcasting, which refers to an audio signal sent to radio receivers. Television became available in crude experimental forms in the 1920s, but only after several years of further development was the new technology marketed to consumers. After World War II, an improved form of black-and-white television broadcasting became popular in the United Kingdom and the United States, and television sets became commonplace in homes, businesses, and institutions. During the 1950s, television was the primary medium for influencing public opinion. In the mid-1960s, color broadcasting was introduced in the U.S. and most other developed countries. The availability of various types of archival storage media such as Betamax and VHS tapes, LaserDiscs, high-capacity hard disk drives, Video CDs, DVDs, flash drives, high-definition Blu-ray discs, and digital video recorders has enabled viewers to...
Freezing food preserves it from the time it is prepared to the time it is eaten. Since early times, farmers, fishermen, and trappers have preserved grains and produce in unheated buildings during the winter season. Freezing food slows decomposition by turning residual moisture into ice, inhibiting the growth of most bacterial species. In the food commodity industry, there are two processes: mechanical and cryogenic . The freezing kinetics is important to preserve the food quality and texture. Quicker freezing generates smaller ice crystals and maintains cellular structure. Cryogenic freezing is the quickest freezing technology available due to the ultra low liquid nitrogen temperature 196 C . Preserving food in domestic kitchens during modern times is achieved using household freezers. Accepted advice to householders was to freeze food on the day of purchase. An initiative by a supermarket group in 2012 backed by the United Kingdom's Waste  Resources Action Programme promotes the freezing of food as soon as possible up to the product's 'use by' date. The Food Standards Agency was reported as supporting the change, provided the food had been stored...
Cashmere wool, usually simply known as cashmere, is a fiber obtained from cashmere goats, pashmina goats, and some other breeds of goat. It has been used to make yarn, textiles and clothing for hundreds of years. Cashmere is closely associated with the Kashmir shawl, the word cashmere deriving from an anglicization of Kashmir, when the Kashmir shawl reached Europe in the 19th century. Both the soft undercoat and the guard hairs may be used the softer hair is reserved for textiles, while the coarse guard hair is used for brushes and other non-apparel purposes. Cashmere is a hygroscopic fiber, absorbing and releasing water from the air based on the surrounding environment. This helps regulate the body in both warm and cool temperatures. A number of countries produce cashmere and have improved processing techniques over the years, but China and Mongolia are two of the leading producers as of 2019. Afghanistan is ranked third. Some yarns and clothing marketed as containing cashmere have been found to contain little to no cashmere fiber, so more stringent testing has been requested to ensure items are fairly represented. Poor land management and overgrazing to increase production of the...
Wrap, as used in the phrase That's a wrap, has been used by directors since the early days of the film industry to signal the end of filming. Since the 1920s, filmmakers have been using this phrase when principal photography is concluded and the film is ready to go into post-production. At that point, it is traditional to hold a wrap party for the cast and crew of the film. This marks the end of the actors' collaboration with each other, the director, producer, and crew on the film . However, the leading cast members may be called in several months or years later to help promote the film when it is ready to be released. The long-commonplace phrase Let's wrap it up or Time to wrap things up is the most likely origin. The term wrap is sometimes said to be an acronym for wind, reel, and print. Printing would typically be done at the end of each shoot day or when else desired, usually as soon as possible for safety of the picture and not at the end of an entire shoot. This is illustrated by use of the phrase cut and print, which was used to signify a request the film just shot should be printed the negative developed and transferred...
Fast food is a type of mass-produced food designed for commercial resale, with a strong priority placed on speed of service. Fast food is a commercial term, limited to food sold in a restaurant or store with frozen, preheated or precooked ingredients and served in packaging for take-out or takeaway. Fast food was created as a commercial strategy to accommodate large numbers of busy commuters, travelers and wage workers. In 2018, the fast-food industry was worth an estimated 570 billion globally. The fastest form of fast food consists of pre-cooked meals which reduce waiting periods to mere seconds. Other fast-food outlets, primarily hamburger outlets such as McDonald's and Burger King, use mass-produced, pre-prepared ingredients bagged buns and condiments, frozen beef patties, vegetables which are pre-washed, pre-sliced, or both etc. and cook the meat and french fries fresh, before assembling to order. Fast-food restaurants are traditionally distinguished by the drive-through. Outlets may be stands or kiosks, which may provide no shelter or seating, or fast-food restaurants . Franchise operations that are part of restaurant chains have...
A list of films produced by the Bollywood film industry based in Mumbai in 2001:  Highest-grossing films  The top 10 highest worldwide grossing Bollywood films of 2001 are as follows:  List of released films   See also  List of Hindi films of 2002 List of Hindi films of 2000  References   External links  Bollywood films of 2001 at the Internet Movie Database
CTIA is a trade association representing the wireless communications industry in the United States. The association was established in 1984 and is headquartered in Washington, D.C. It is a 501 nonprofit membership organization, and represents wireless carriers and suppliers, and manufacturers and providers of wireless products and services. CTIA operates certification programs for the wireless industry and publishes wireless industry surveys. It has also sponsored various public service initiatives related to wireless. It was initially known as the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association until 2004, and later the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association. The organization has since operated under its initialism only, subtitled as CTIA - The Wireless Association until 2015.  History  CTIA was established in May 1984 as the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association. In 2000, the organization merged with the Wireless Data Forum and became the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association. Its name was changed to CTIA-The Wireless Association in 2004.  Leadership  Tom Wheeler was chief executive officer of CTIA from 1992 to 2004. He...
Solar power includes solar farms as well as local distributed generation, mostly on rooftops and increasingly from community solar arrays. In 2025, utility-scale solar power generated 295.7 terawatt-hours in the United States. Total solar generation that year, including estimated small-scale photovoltaic generation, was 388.8 TWh. As of the end of 2024, the United States had 239 gigawatts of installed photovoltaic and concentrated solar power capacity combined. This capacity is exceeded only by China and the European Union. In 2024, 66 of all new electricity generation capacity in the U.S. came from solar. The United States conducted much early research in photovoltaics and concentrated solar power. It is among the top countries in the world in electricity generated by the sun and several of the world's largest utility-scale installations are located in the desert Southwest. The oldest solar power plant in the world is the 354-megawatt Solar Energy Generating Systems thermal power plant in California. The Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System is a solar thermal power project in the Mojave Desert, 40 miles southwest of Las Vegas...
The economy of Vietnam is a developing mixed socialist-oriented market economy. It is the 33rd-largest economy in the world by nominal gross domestic product and the 23rd-largest economy in the world by purchasing power parity . It is an upper-middle income country with a rising cost of living, specifically in urban areas like Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi. Vietnam is a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the World Trade Organization. Since the mid-1980s, through the i Mi reform period, Vietnam has made a shift from a highly centralized planned economy to a mixed economy. Before, South Vietnam was reliant on U.S. aid, while North Vietnam and reunified Vietnam relied on Soviet aid until the Soviet Union's dissolution. The economy uses both directive and indicative planning through five-year plans, with support from an open market-based economy. Over that period, the economy has experienced rapid growth. In the 21st century, Vietnam is in a period of being integrated into the global economy. Almost all Vietnamese enterprises are small and medium enterprises . Vietnam has become a leading agricultural exporter...
The leisure industry is the segment of business focused on provision of goods and services related to recreation, entertainment, sports, and tourism -related products and services. The field has developed to the point of having university degrees and disciplines focused on it, such as the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration, Webber, and San Jose State University's departments of hospitality, recreation and tourism management. Some universities offer leisure degrees, two of those universities can be found in the Netherlands: the Breda University of Applied Sciences and the NHLStenden University of Applied Sciences. Both offers bachelor's in international leisure management, the latter of which is branded as International Leisure  Events Management.  See also  Gambling Sport industry  References  The Tourism and Leisure Industry: Shaping the Future, Klaus Weiermair and Christine Mathies. Haworth Press, 2004 ISBN 0-7890-2103-
Myanmar has a lower-middle income economy that is considered the seventh largest in Southeast Asia and among the world's least developed. After the return of civilian rule in 2011, the new government launched large-scale reforms, focused initially on the political system to restore peace and achieve national unity and moving quickly to an economic and social reform program. Myanmar has faced an economic crisis since the 2021 coup d'tat. According to the International Monetary Fund , the nation generates 83.83 billion in nominal gross domestic product and 293.91 by purchasing power parity , as of 2026. Myanmar's GDP per capita stands at 1,519.  History   Classical era  Burma has been the main trade route between China and India since 100 BC. The Mon Kingdom of lower Burma served as an important trading centre in the Bay of Bengal. The majority of the population was involved in rice production and other forms of agriculture. Burma used silver as the trade currency. All land was nominally owned by the Burmese monarch. Exports, along with oil wells, gem mining and teak production were controlled by the monarch. Burma was vitally involved in the Indian Ocean...
Adafruit Industries is an open-source hardware company based in New York, United States. It was founded by Limor Fried in 2005. The company designs, manufactures and sells electronics products, electronics components, tools, and accessories. It also produces learning resources, including live and recorded videos about electronics, technology, and programming.  History  Limor Fried, then a student at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, began selling electronic kits on her website from her own designs in 2005. She later moved to New York City and established Adafruit Industries. In 2010, Adafruit offered a US1,000 reward for whoever could hack Microsoft's Kinect to make its motion-sensing capabilities available for use for other projects. This reward was increased to 2,000 and then 3,000 after Microsoft said it would work to prevent such tampering. In November, the reward was issued to Hector Martin for his open-source Kinect driver. The company had 22 million in revenue in 2013 and 33 million in 2014.  Company name  The name Adafruit comes from Fried's online moniker Ladyada, a homage to computer science pioneer Ada Lovelace. The company...
A chamber of commerce, or board of trade, is a business network, a local organization of businesses whose goal is to further the interests of businesses. Business owners in towns and cities form these local societies to advocate for the business community. Local businesses are members, and they elect a board of directors or executive council to set policy for the chamber. A chamber of commerce may be a voluntary or a mandatory association of business firms belonging to different trades and industries. They serve as spokespeople and representatives of a business community. They differ from country to country. In some countries, a chamber of commerce is distinguished from a Chamber of Trade which represents the interests of tradespeople and artisans rather than industry, for example the French Chambre de mtiers et de l'artisanat , the chamber of trades and artisans.  History  The first chamber of commerce was the Marseille Chamber of Commerce, founded in 1599 in Marseille, France, as the Chambre de Commerce. The Royal Barcelona Board of Trade was established in 1758. The world's oldest English-speaking chamber of commerce and oldest chamber of commerce in North America is...
The prison-industrial complex is a term, coined after the military-industrial complex of the 1950s, used by scholars and activists to describe the many relationships between institutions of imprisonment e.g., prisons, jails, detention facilities, and psychiatric hospitals and the various establishments that profit from them. The term is most often used in the context of the contemporary United States, where the expansion of the U.S. inmate population has resulted in economic profit and political influence for private prisons and other companies that supply goods and services to government prison agencies. According to this concept, incarceration not only upholds the justice system, but also subsidizes construction companies, companies that operate prison food services and medical facilities, surveillance and corrections technology vendors, telecommunications, corporations that contract cheap prison labor, correctional officers unions, private probation companies, criminal lawyers, and the lobby groups that represent them. That is, the PIC is not just a singular relationship born between inmate and incarceration, but rather as system whose arms influence and reach most all...
E-commerce refers to commercial activities including the electronic buying or selling products and services which are conducted on online platforms or over the Internet. E-commerce draws on technologies such as mobile commerce, electronic funds transfer, supply chain management, Internet marketing, online transaction processing, electronic data interchange , inventory management systems, and automated data collection systems. E-commerce is a part of retail. It is the largest segment of the electronics industry and is in turn driven by the technological advances of the semiconductor industry.  Defining e-commerce  The term was coined and first employed by Robert Jacobson, Principal Consultant to the California State Assembly's Utilities  Commerce Committee, in the title and text of California's Electronic Commerce Act, carried by the late Committee Chairwoman Gwen Moore and enacted in 1984. E-commerce typically uses the web for at least a part of a transaction's life cycle although it may also use other technologies such as e-mail. Typical e-commerce transactions include the purchase of products or services such as...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 745 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A residual neural network also referred to as a residual network or ResNet is a deep learning architecture in which the layers learn residual functions with reference to the layer inputs. It was developed in 2015 for image recognition, and won the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge of that year. As a point of terminology, residual connection refers to the specific architectural motif of x  f  x displaystyle xmapsto fx , where f displaystyle f is an arbitrary neural network module. The motif had been used previously . However, the publication of ResNet made it widely popular for feedforward networks, appearing in neural networks that are seemingly unrelated to ResNet. The residual connection stabilizes the training and convergence of deep neural networks with hundreds of layers, and is a common motif in deep neural networks, such as transformer models e.g., BERT, and GPT models such as ChatGPT, the AlphaGo Zero system, the AlphaStar system, and the AlphaFold system. ...
In machine learning, physics-informed neural networks , also referred to as theory-trained neural networks , are a type of universal function approximator that can embed the knowledge of any physical laws that govern a given data-set in the learning process, and can be described by partial differential equations . Low data availability for some biological and engineering problems limit the robustness of conventional machine learning models used for these applications. The prior knowledge of general physical laws acts in the training of neural networks as a regularization agent that limits the space of admissible solutions, increasing the generalizability of the function approximation. This way, embedding this prior information into a neural network results in enhancing the information content of the available data, facilitating the learning algorithm to capture the right solution and to generalize well even with a low amount of training examples. Because they process continuous spatial and time coordinates and output continuous PDE solutions, they can be categorized as neural fields.  Function approximation  Most of the physical laws that govern the dynamics...
Quantum neural networks are computational neural network models which are based on the principles of quantum mechanics. The first ideas on quantum neural computation were published independently in 1995 by Subhash Kak and Ron Chrisley, engaging with the theory of quantum mind, which posits that quantum effects play a role in cognitive function. However, typical research in quantum neural networks involves combining classical artificial neural network models which are widely used in machine learning for the important task of pattern recognition with the advantages of quantum information in order to develop more efficient algorithms. One important motivation for these investigations is the difficulty to train classical neural networks, especially in big data applications. The hope is that features of quantum computing such as quantum parallelism or the effects of interference and entanglement can be used as resources. Since the technological implementation of a quantum computer is still in a premature stage, such quantum neural network models are mostly theoretical proposals that await their full implementation in physical experiments. Most quantum neural networks are developed...
Artificial neural networks are models created using machine learning to perform a number of tasks. While the computational implementations of ANNs relate to earlier discoveries in mathematics, their creation was inspired by biological neural circuitry. The first implementation of ANNs was the perceptron by Frank Rosenblatt. Despite the frequent claim that little research was conducted on ANNs in the 1970s and 1980s-the AAAI calling this period an AI winter-there was ongoing development of ANNs, especially connected to the development of specialized computers for simulating these networks. Later, advances in hardware and the development of the backpropagation algorithm, as well as recurrent neural networks and convolutional neural networks, renewed interest in ANNs. The 2010s saw the development of a deep neural network called AlexNet. It greatly outperformed other image recognition models, and is thought to have launched the ongoing AI spring. The transformer architecture was first described in 2017 as a method to teach ANNs grammatical dependencies in language, and is the predominant architecture used by large language models such as GPT-4. Diffusion...
A neural network is an interconnected population of neurons: Neural network , a network of real neurons in the brain Neural network , a network of mathematical neurons used in computation Neural network or Neural Networks may also refer to: Neural Networks , a peer-reviewed scientific journal Neural Networks: A Comprehensive Foundation, a 1999 book by Simon Haykin Neural Networks. A Systematic Introduction, a 1996 book by Ral Rojas  See also  All pages with titles containing Neural network
NNUE, which stands for efficiently updatable neural network is a neural network made to replace the evaluation of Shogi, chess and other board games using alpha-beta searchers running on a CPU.  History  NNUE was invented by Yu Nasu in 2018, and was first used in the computer shogi engine YaneuraOu. It is a Japanese wordplay on Nue , a mythical Japanese chimera. Following its success in Shogi, NNUE was for the first time ported to the chess engine Stockfish 12, resulting in a major increase in Elo for the engine. Since then, NNUE has been used for almost every other competitive engine. The architecture was inspired by Kunihito Hoki's approach in the shogi engine Bonanza, which used piece-square tables indexed by king location . It was first implemented into YaneuraOu which was developed by Motohiro Isozaki.  Adaptation to computer chess  In early 2020, Japanese programmer Hisayori Nodchip Noda added the NNUE evaluation into a development branch of Stockfish to prove its effectiveness in chess. This prototype, known as Stockfish NNUE, demonstrated a significant increase in Elo...
In deep learning, pruning is the practice of removing parameters from an existing artificial neural network. The goal of this process is to reduce the size of the neural network and therefore the computational resources required to run it whilst maintaining accuracy. This can be compared to the biological process of synaptic pruning which takes place in mammalian brains during development.  Node pruning  A basic algorithm for pruning is as follows: Evaluate the importance of each neuron. Rank the neurons according to their importance assuming there is a clearly defined measure for importance. Remove the least important neuron. Check a termination condition to see whether to continue pruning.  Edge pruning  Most work on neural network pruning does not remove full neurons or layers . Instead, it focuses on removing the most insignificant weights , namely, setting their values to zero. This can either be done globally by comparing weights from all layers in the network or locally by comparing weights in each layer separately. Different metrics can be used to measure...
Dropout is a regularization technique for reducing overfitting in artificial neural networks by preventing complex co-adaptations on training data. The technique consists of randomly setting the inputs andor outputs of neurons to zero. It is performed during the training process of a neural network, not during inference. A related older technique is dilution, which randomly decreases weights towards zero.  Dilution  Dilution is usually split in weak dilution and strong dilution. Weak dilution describes the process in which the finite fraction of removed connections is small, and strong dilution refers to when this fraction is large. There is no clear distinction on where the limit between strong and weak dilution is, and often the distinction is dependent on the precedent of a specific use-case and has implications for how to solve for exact solutions. Sometimes dilution is used for adding damping noise to the inputs. In that case, weak dilution refers to adding a small amount of damping noise, while strong dilution refers to adding a greater amount of damping noise. Both can be rewritten as variants of weight dilution. These techniques are also sometimes referred to as random...
Types of neural networks include a family of techniques. The simplest types have static components, including number of units, number of layers, unit weights and topology. Dynamic NNs evolve via learning. Some types allowrequire learning to be supervised by the operator, while others operate independently. Some types operate purely in hardware, while others are purely software and run on general purpose computers. While there are dozens of different types of neural network architecture, the four most commonly used architectures are as follows: Feedforward neural networks : Also called a Multi-Layer Perceptron , these are basic neural networks with an unidirectional information flow. They lack memory and any sense of spatial or temporal data however their simple architecture is useful for basic pattern recognition. Convolutional neural networks : Uses convolutional filters to scan across input data, detecting local features like edges, textures, or shapes. They are typically used to analyze visual and other two-dimensional data. They are spatially aware, but lack in sequential or variable-length dependencies. Recurrent neural networks...
The Open Neural Network Exchange is an open-source artificial intelligence ecosystem of technology companies and research organizations that establish open standards for representing machine learning algorithms and software tools to enable a standard format for representing machine learning models. ONN is available on GitHub.  History  ONN was originally named Toffee and was developed by the PyTorch team at Facebook. In September 2017 it was renamed to ONN and announced by Facebook and Microsoft. Later, IBM, Huawei, Intel, AMD, Arm and Qualcomm announced support for the initiative. In October 2017, Microsoft announced that it would add its Cognitive Toolkit and Project Brainwave platform to the initiative. In November 2019 ONN was accepted as graduate project in Linux Foundation AI. In October 2020 Zetane Systems became a member of the ONN ecosystem.  Intent  The initiative targets:  Framework interoperability  Enable developers to move machine learning models between different frameworks, which may be used at different stages of the development process, such as training, architecture design, or deployment on mobile devices.  Shared optimization... 
A generative adversarial network is a class of machine learning frameworks and a prominent framework for approaching generative AI. The concept was initially developed by Ian Goodfellow and his colleagues in June 2014. In a GAN, two neural networks compete with each other in the form of a zero-sum game, where one agent's gain is another agent's loss. Given a training set, this technique learns to generate new data with the same statistics as the training set. For example, a GAN trained on photographs can generate new photographs that look at least superficially authentic to human observers, having many realistic characteristics. Though originally proposed as a form of generative model for unsupervised learning, GANs have also proved useful for semi-supervised learning, fully supervised learning, and reinforcement learning. The core idea of a GAN is based on the indirect training through the discriminator, another neural network that can tell how realistic the input seems, which itself is also being updated dynamically. This means that the generator is not trained to minimize the distance to a specific image, but rather to fool the discriminator. This enables the model to learn...
Valentin de Bournonville was a French Baroque composer and music master active in the middle of the 17th century.  Biography  Valentin de Bournonville was the son of Jean de Bournonville, and trained by his father in the mastery of the Amiens Cathedral. He was a priest. In 1634 he took over the position of master of the children of the cathedral, succeeding Artus Aux-Cousteaux, who himself had succeeded Jean de Bournonville. In 1643, an act of 23 July shows him depositing his almuce on the desk of the chapter as a sign of obedience, like the other vicars and chaplains of the cathedral. In 1646, when he had two masses published by Robert III Ballard, he is said to be a canon of the church of St. Firmin d'Amiens and master of the children of the cathedral church of that city. He was also endowed with the Vicariate Chapel of Saint-Quentin. Valentin de Bournonville then moved to Paris, being appointed on 27 August 1646 as the music master of the Cathdrale Notre-Dame de Paris, until 20 March 1653, succeeding here Franois Cosset. On 14 April 1651, the chapter reminded him that during the days of great feast, only a psalm and the magnificat were to be sung in...
The Lakewood Catholic Parish Family is a Catholic parish family of the Archdiocese of Seattle in Lakewood, Washington, United States, comprising two parishes, St. Frances Cabrini and St. John Bosco, sharing a single pastor under the Archdiocese of Seattle's Partners in the Gospel restructuring initiative. The parish family was established on July 1, 2024, when the archdiocese reorganized its 136 parishes into 60 parish families. The two parishes share staff and ministries while retaining separate worship sites. St. Frances Cabrini administers the affiliated St. Frances Cabrini Catholic School St. John Bosco administers the Church of the Immaculate Conception mission in nearby Steilacoom.  Background   Lakewood, Washington  Lakewood, Washington is a city in Pierce County, about 10 miles south of downtown Tacoma. Long an unincorporated community, Lakewood was incorporated on February 28, 1996, becoming Pierce County's second-largest city. Its population grew rapidly between 1939 and 1949, from roughly 3,000 to 17,000, largely due to the expansion of nearby military installations. The city now has nearly 64,000 residents and a substantial military population tied to adjacent...
JDS Okishio was a Yshio-class submarine. She was commissioned on 1 March 1983.  Construction and career  Okishio was laid down at Kawasaki Heavy Industries Kobe Shipyard on 17 April 1980 and launched on 5 March 1982. She was commissioned on 1 March 1983, into the 2nd Submarine Group in Yokosuka. She later participated in Hawaii dispatch training from 9 September to 3 December 1985. From 1 July to 30 November 1987, she undergone additional equipment work on the towed sonar . This will increase her standard displacement by about 100 tonnes. She participated in Hawaii dispatch training from August 4 to November 5, 1988. On 12 March 1997, she was transferred as the 1st submarine of the 1st Submarine Group, and her homeport was transferred to Kure. On 29 March 2001, she was reclassified as a training submarine, her hull number changed to TSS-3603, and she was transferred to the Fleet Submarine 1st Training Submarine. She was decommissioned on 4 March 2003.  Citations 
Masabih al-Sunnah is a collection of hadith by the Persian Shafi'i scholar Abu Muhammad al-Husayn ibn Mas'ud ibn Muhammad al-Farra' al-Baghawi, from sometime before 516 H. An improved version of this work, Mishkat al-Masabih, has additional hadith, and was the work of another Persian traditionist Al-Tabrizi d. 741H.  Description  The collection is divided into a number of books which are divided into chapters which are further divided into two separate sections, one for Sahih ahadeeth as labeled by him  from the collections of Bukhari and Muslim, the second section was for hasan ahadeeth according to his own labelling . Al-Tabrizi would alter certain ahadeeth positions in his own collection.  Features of the Collection  Al-Baghawi omitted the isnads of these ahadeeth but kept the names of the Sahaba to whom the ahadith were traced. Part of his purpose, as explained in the introduction, was to enlighten Muslims about certain things of which the Quran is silent. Contains a grand total of 4434 ahadeeth. 2434 are from Sahih section: 325 Sahih Bukhari Only 875 Sahih Muslim Only 1234 from both Sahih Bukhari and Sahih Muslim Al-Baghawi tells...
VARAN Versatile Automation Random Access Network is a Ethernet-based Fieldbus industrial communication system. VARAN is a wired data network technology for local data networks with the main application in the field of automation technology. It enables the exchange of data in the form of data frames between all LAN connected devices controllers, inputoutput devices, drives, etc.. VARAN includes the definitions for types of cables and connectors, describes the physical signalling and specifies packet formats and protocols. From the perspective of the OSI model, VARAN specifies both the physical layer and the data link layer . VARAN is a protocol according to the principle master-slave. The VARAN BUS USER ORGANIZATION is responsible for the care of the Protocol.  References 
The South Carolina High School League is the organization that rules and regulates school athletics in the U.S. state of South Carolina. Based out of Columbia, the SCHSL serves over 330,000 students at 220 high schools and 200 junior high schools.  History  In 1913, the Inter-High School Athletic and Oratorical Association was founded by delegates from various high schools and the University of South Carolina. By 1920, the organization had expanded its membership and activities to the point where reorganization was necessary. In 1921, a new constitution was adopted and the name was officially changed to the South Carolina High School League. The SCHSL experienced a boom in membership from 1921-1930, going from 30 schools to 121 schools. The constitution was rewritten in 1933 and again 1948 to accommodate further growth. The SCHSL joined the National Federation of State High School Associations in 1948. Ever since 1954, the SCHSL has had 100 of the public schools in the state as members. In 1970 the South Carolina Secondary School Activities Association merged with the league.  Competition  SCHSL sanctions competition in the following sports: baseball, basketball,...
Berezovaya Gora is a rural locality in Kichmengskoye Rural Settlement, Kichmengsko-Gorodetsky District, Vologda Oblast, Russia. The population was 162 as of 2002. There are 2 streets.  Geography  Berezovaya Gora is located 15 km southwest of Kichmengsky Gorodok by road. Podol is the nearest rural locality.  References 
ia Ruifang Chinese:  pinyin: i Rufng 1871 - 10 January 1914, courtesy name Cuifang , was a Chinese publisher. Known as China's first publisher, he co-founded the Commercial Press in 1897 and oversaw its operations until his assassination in 1914.  Early life  ia Ruifang was born in 1871 in Qingpu District near Shanghai. His mother was a baomu who worked for the family of John Marshall Willoughby Farnham. At age 11, ia and his mother moved to Shanghai and attended the Presbyterian Qingxin Hall school, which Farnham was the director of. At Qingxin, ia learnt printing and interned at the American Presbyterian Mission Press. Graduating in 1889, he found employment as a typesetter at the Chinese-language Wenhui bao and subsequently the English-language North China Herald.  Career  Unhappy with his treatment at the Herald, ia decided to found his own publishing firm with the help of Qingxin schoolmates Bao ianen, Bao ianchang, and Gao Fengchi. Their first project, a Chinese translation of an English textbook, sold some three thousand copies. Spurred by the success of their maiden venture, the four partners quickly...
Makino Sadanaga   November 21, 1733 - September 30, 1796 was a Japanese daimy of the mid-Edo period. The Makino were identified as one of the fudai or insider daimy clans which were hereditary vassals or allies of the Tokugawa clan, in contrast with the tozama or outsider clans.  Makino clan genealogy  The fudai Makino clan originated in 16th century Mikawa Province. Their elevation in status by Toyotomi Hideyoshi dates from 1588. They claim descent from Takenouchi no Sukune, who was a legendary Statesman and lover of the legendary Empress Jing. Sadanaga was part of a cadet branch of the Makino which was created in 1680. These Makino resided successively at Sekiyado Domain in Shimsa Province in 1683 at Yoshida Domain at Mikawa Province in 1705 at Nabeoka Domain in Hyga Province in 1712 and, from 1747 through 1868 at Kasama Domain in Hitachi Province. The head of this clan line was ennobled as a Viscount in the Meiji period.  Tokugawa official  Sadanaga served the Tokugawa shogunate as its twenty-eighth Kyoto shoshidai in the period spanning July 2, 1781, though June 28, 1784. Sadanaga was the son of Makino Sadamichi , who was...
Homology, Homotopy and Applications is a peer-reviewed delayed open access mathematics journal published by International Press. It was established in 1999 and covers research on algebraic topology. The journal Homology, Homotopy and Applications has been founded in 1998 by Hvedri Inassaridze, Head of the Algebra Department of A. Razmadze Mathematical Institute of the Georgian Academy of Sciences, Professor of Tbilisi State University, Georgia. The journal is indexed by Mathematical Reviews and Zentralblatt MATH. Its 2011 MCQ was 0.55, and according to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal had a 2015 impact factor of 0.486, with a 5-year impact factor for that year of 0.654. Formerly completely open access, the journal has switched to a delayed open access model. Volume are made open access 4 years after their issue year. International Press says it reserves the right to change its online access policy at any time.  References   External links  Official website
Kino are a British neo-prog band made up of members from other progressive rock acts John Mitchell from Arena and The Urbane Pete Trewavas from Marillion, Edison's Children and Transatlantic John Beck from It Bites Bob Dalton also from It Bites Chris Maitland formerly of Porcupine Tree. The band released their debut album Picture in February 2005. The band were inactive from 2006-2018 with Mitchell having joined Beck and Dalton in the re-formed It Bites, replacing original singerguitarist Francis Dunnery, touring in 2006 and releasing 2 albums., and the band no longer appearing on InsideOut music's website. However, in January 2018, it was announced that Mitchell, Trewavas and Beck had reformed the band with Craig Blundell replacing Chris Maitland on drums. A new studio album 'Radio Voltaire' was released in March 2018.  Line up   Current members  John Mitchell - lead and backing vocals, guitars Pete Trewavas - bass, bass pedals, backing and lead vocals John Beck - synthesizers, backing and lead vocals Craig Blundell - drums, percussion  Former members  Chris Maitland Picture...
Raymond J. Gagn is an American entomologist whose work focuses on gall midges. He was born in Meriden, Connecticut, and earned degrees from the University of Connecticut, Iowa State University, and the University of Minnesota. He has authored at least 230 scientific publications and described 68 genera and 332 species. Most of his work has been done as part of the USDA Systematic Entomological Laboratory at the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History. The wood midge genus Gagnea was named in his honor.  See also  Category:Taxa named by Raymond J. Gagne  References 
ochimilco was the most important city of the ochimilca people, one of the Nahua tribes that migrated to the Mesoamerica region. At the same time it was the name of the altepetl of this group and historically referred to both interchangebly. The city was founded around 900 AD. It grew to become an important city in the Valley of Mexico, until in 1430, the Mexica of Tenochtitlan succeeded in conquering the city.  Etymology  The name ochimilco comes from Nahuatl and means flower field. This referred to the many flowers and other crops that were grown here on chinampas since the pre-Hispanic period.  History  The first human presence in the area was of hunter gatherers, who eventually settled into farming communities. The first settlements in the ochimilco area were associated with the Cuicuilco, Copilco and Tlatilco settlements during the Classic period. The ochimilca people, considered to be one of the seven tribes that migrated into the Valley of Mexico from Chicomoztoc, first settled around 900 CD in Cuahilama, near what is now Santa Cruz Acalpixca. They worshipped sixteen deities, with Chantico, goddess of the hearth and Cihuacoatl...
Hairkutt is a 2005 documentary film by Curtis Elliott and Ben Scholle.  Plot  The film stars Bryant HairKutt Johnson, director Elliott, Maurice Bradley, and Anthony Dorsey as four friends from St. Louis, Missouri, who travel to a remote cabin in the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee. Their plan is to spend a week together to help Hairkutt quit his 15-year addiction to heroin. Hairkutt longs to end his heroin addiction in order to finally care for his daughter and to realize his dream of running his own hair-cutting business. His friends, particularly Curtis Elliott, want to help him, so they travel to a cabin in Tennessee, cover its carpeting with plastic sheeting, and prepare restraining ropes on one of the beds. Hairkutt will attempt to quit cold turkey. It is stated that 99 of attempts to quit heroin cold turkey are unsuccessful. During the first night, Hairkutt experiences severe withdrawal symptoms while his friends remain with him and provide support. Over the following nights, his condition fluctuates as they care for him and challenge him to confront his addiction, leaving uncertain whether he will recover or continue to deteriorate.  Cast  Reese ... Maurice Bradley...
Venetian literature is the corpus of literature in Venetian, the vernacular language of the region roughly corresponding to Venice, from the 12th century. Venetian literature, after an initial period of splendour in the sixteenth century with the success of artists such as Ruzante, reached its zenith in the eighteenth century, thanks to its greatest exponent, dramatist Carlo Goldoni. Subsequently, the literary production in Venetian underwent a period of decline following the collapse of the Republic of Venice, but survived nonetheless into the twentieth century to reach peaks with wonderful lyrical poets such as Biagio Marin of Grado.  Origin  The first evidence of the birth of vernacular Venetian is the Veronese Riddle, dating between the end of the eighth and the early ninth century, written in a language halfway between Latin and the vernacular. The first fragment entirely in Venetian, dating to circa 1198, is the Ritmo bellunese which deals with events at Belluno in the years 1183 to 1196.  Thirteenth century  In the thirteenth century, there is an explosion of compositions in the Venetian language designed to meet the literary tastes of the emerging urban...
The Odd Gentlemen is an American video game developer founded by Matt Korba and Paul Bellezza in 2008.  History  Its first video game is The Misadventures of P.B. Winterbottom. It was originally Matt Korba's graduate thesis at the University of Southern California. The Misadventures of P.B. Winterbottom is a puzzle platform game that boasted the company's quirky art style. It was published by 2K Play. They have also released a game in the PlayStation 3's social gaming network, PlayStation Home, called Slap Happy Sam. In 2012, The Odd Gentlemen released their first iPhone game, Flea Symphony. Author Neil Gaiman announced in June 2013 he would be making his first game with the help of The Odd Gentlemen. The game is called Wayward Manor and was released in 2014. At least as early as 2014, the Odd Gentlemen were attached to the production of Andrew Hussie's Homestuck adventure game, Hiveswap. On June 19, 2014, Hussie announced their involvement via backer-only Kickstarter update. The studio publicly acknowledged their involvement with the game two days later, on June 21. On October 30, 2014, Hussie announced that The Odd Gentlemen's involvement was winding down and that the Homestuck...
The 2006 Hockenheimring GP2 Series round was a GP2 Series motor race held on July 29 and 30, 2006 at the Hockenheimring in Baden-Wrttemberg, Germany. It was the eighth round of the 2006 GP2 Series season. The race weekend supported the 2006 German Grand Prix.  Classification   Qualifying   Feature race   Sprint race   Notes   References 
Jos Jess Mrquez Snchez is a Spanish Taekwondo athlete. He is a two-time world champion and five-time straight national welterweight champion . At the 1995 World Championships in Manila, Mrquez won the welterweight gold medal by defeating Jean Lopez, the eldest Lopez sibling, in the final.  References 
Mecistoptera albisigna is a species of moth of the family Erebidae. It was described by George Hampson in 1912. It is found in southern India, Australia and on Fiji. The wingspan is about 24 mm. The forewings are grey brown irrorated with a few black scales and with traces of a strongly excurved antemedial line. The orbicular stigma is found near the end of the cell and is round and defined by black except below. There is a comet-shaped mark at the end of the cell, its upper extremity extending to near the costa and its lower to near the postmedial line above vein three, defined by black except above, with a white spot on its inner side on the discocellulars, a white line on its outer edge and some rufous in the centre, some black suffusion beyond it and a slight white streak above its upper extremity. The postmedial line is black, dentate and oblique from the costa near the apex to vein three, angled outwards at vein seven and inwards at the discal fold. There is a fuscous mark below vein two, as well as some white points on the costa towards the apex. The subterminal line is slight, grey defined on the inner side by black striae, excurved at the middle, and angled inwards...
Charles Smart Evans was an English vocalist and composer. Evans was a chorister under Dr. Edmund Ayrton, and in 1808 a gentleman of the Chapel Royal. His name appears among the alto singers in the chorus of the Ancient Concerts of 1798, and he took part with John Braham and others in the music performed at Weber's funeral in 1826. Four of Evans's part-songs gained prizes from the Glee and Catch Clubs, namely: Beauties, have you seen a toy?  Fill all the glasses  Ode to the Memory of Samuel Webbe , for Samuel Webbe and Great Bacchus . Subsequently he became a catholic and a member of the choir of the chapel of the Portuguese embassy. Evans wrote a Magnificat and some motets, contained in books iv. and v. of Alfred Novello's Collection of Motets. He was also the composer of many songs.  References  This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed. . Evans, Charles Smart. Dictionary of National Biography. Vol. 18. London: Smith, Elder  Co.
In historiography, historical revisionism is the reinterpretation of a historical account. It involves challenging the orthodox scholarly views or narratives regarding a historical event, timespan, or phenomenon by introducing contrary evidence or reinterpreting the motivations of the people involved. Revision of the historical record can reflect new discoveries of fact, evidence, and interpretation as they come to light. The process of historical revision is a common, necessary, and usually uncontroversial process which develops and refines the historical record to make it more complete and accurate. Debate forms an essential part of the practice of history: in the words of Simon Schama: History is argument. One form of historical revisionism involves denying the moral significance or accuracy of the historical record. This type of historical revisionism, called historical negationism, is contentious if it includes denying the veracity of genuine documents, or deliberately manipulating statistical data to reach predetermined conclusions. The destruction or alteration of cultural-heritage sites is also considered a form of illegitimate historical...
The natural history of Earth concerns the development of planet Earth from its formation to the present day. Nearly all branches of natural science have contributed to the understanding of the main events of Earth's past, characterized by constant geological change and biological evolution. The geological time scale , as defined by international convention, depicts the large spans of time from the beginning of Earth to the present, and its divisions chronicle some definitive events of Earth history. Earth formed around 4.54 billion years ago, approximately one-third the age of the universe, by accretion from the solar nebula. Volcanic outgassing probably created the primordial atmosphere and then the ocean, but the early atmosphere contained almost no oxygen. Much of Earth was molten because of frequent collisions with other bodies which led to extreme volcanism. While Earth was in its earliest stage , a giant impact collision with a planet-sized body named Theia is thought to have formed the Moon. Over time, Earth cooled, causing the formation of a solid crust, and allowing liquid water on the surface. The Hadean eon represents the time before a reliable ...
Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix is a remix album by the American singer Michael Jackson. It was released on May 20, 1997, by Epic Records, and is the second album also released by MJJ Productions, Jackson's record label. The album comprises eight remixes of songs from Jackson's ninth studio album, HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I , and five new songs that failed to make previous albums. Jackson was involved primarily with the production of the new material the remixes were produced by other artists. Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix incorporates RB, pop, industrial, hip hop, house, funk and new jack swing. It concerns themes such as drug addiction, sex, relationships, and paranoia. Though Blood on the Dance Floor received minimal promotion by Jackson's standards, particularly in the United States, the short film Michael Jackson's Ghosts, two singles , a promotional single , and a music video were issued as promotion. Although initial sales in the United States were seen as disappointing for Jackson, it reached number one throughout Europe, including in France, Belgium, Spain, the UK, and...
A historian is a scholar who studies and writes about the past and is regarded as an authority on it. Historians are concerned with the continuous, methodical narrative and research of past events as relating to the human race as well as the study of all history in time. Some historians are recognized by publications or training and experience. Historian became a professional occupation in the late nineteenth century as research universities were emerging in Germany. The professionalization process spread to Japan, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Russia, Scandinavia, Greece, Romania, and Latin America, with each adapting the German model with local modifications.  Objectivity   Among historians   Ancient historians  In the 19th century, scholars used to study ancient Greek and Roman historians to see how generally reliable they were. In recent decades, however, scholars have focused more on the constructions, genres, and meanings that ancient historians sought to convey to their audiences. History is always written with contemporary concerns and ancient historians wrote their histories in response to the needs of their times. Out of thousands of Greek and Roman historians...
The history of Corsica goes back to antiquity, and was known to Herodotus, who described Phoenician habitation in the 6th century BC. Etruscans and Carthaginians expelled the Ionian Greeks, and remained until the Romans arrived during the Punic Wars in 237 BC. Vandals occupied it in 430 AD, followed by the Byzantine Empire a century later. Raided by various Germanic and other groups for two centuries, it was conquered in 774 by Charlemagne under the Holy Roman Empire, which fought for control against the Saracens. After a period of feudal anarchy, the island was transferred to the papacy, then to city states Pisa and Genoa, which retained control over it for five centuries, until the establishment of the Corsican Republic in 1755. The French gained control in the 1768 Treaty of Versailles. Corsica was briefly independent as a Kingdom in union with Great Britain after the French Revolution in 1789, with a viceroy and elected Parliament, but returned to French rule in 1796. Corsica strongly supported the allies in World War I, caring for wounded, and housing POWs. The poilus fought loyally and suffered great casualties. A recession after the war prompted a mass exodus to southern France...
See: Telyn harps The harp is the national instrument of Wales, with an unbroken line of harpers reaching back to at least the 11th century. Little is known of the origins of these early instruments, although small details such as poems are recorded, decrying the use of the new-fangled gut strings, as opposed to the traditional strings of plaited horse hair. There are examples of triple harps made at Llanover and Llanrwst as well as those made by Bassett-Jones of Cardiff, and are on display at the St Fagans National History Museum near Cardiff. A rebirth in the making of Celtic and triple harps came about in the mid-1960s by J.W. Thomas of Gwaelod y Garth near Taffs Well. John Thomas died in 1992, but had passed on his skills to several apprentices. One of these apprentices, Allan Shiers founded Telynau Teifi Harps in 2004 in Llandysul, where Celtic and folk harps are still made.  External links  BBC Welsh Harp History Teifi Harps  See also  List of national instruments
The history of Lisbon, the capital city of Portugal, revolves around its strategic geographical position at the mouth of the Tagus, the longest river in the Iberian Peninsula. Its spacious and sheltered natural harbour made the city historically an important seaport for trade between the Mediterranean Sea and northern Europe. Lisbon has long enjoyed the commercial advantages of its proximity to southern and extreme western Europe, as well as to sub-Saharan Africa and the Americas, and today its waterfront is lined with miles of docks, wharfs, and drydock facilities that accommodate the largest oil tankers. During the Neolithic period, pre-Celtic peoples inhabited the region remains of their stone monuments still exist today in the periphery of the city. Lisbon is one of the oldest cities in western Europe, with a history that stretches back to its original settlement by its indigenous peoples, and the eventual establishment of Phoenician and Greek trading posts , followed by successive occupations in the city of various peoples including the Carthaginians, Romans, Suebi, Visigoths, and Moors. Roman armies first entered the Iberian peninsula in 219 BC, and occupied the...
History: A Novel is a novel by Italian author Elsa Morante. It is included in the list of the hundred best books ever, compiled in 2002 by the Norwegian book Club. Published in 1974, it narrates the story of a partly Jewish woman, Ida Ramundo, and her two sons Antonio nicknamed Ninnarieddu, Ninnuzzu or Nino and Giuseppe in Rome, during and immediately after the Second World War. The Italian title La Storia can be translated as either History or The Story the ambiguity is lost in translation.  Summary  Each of the novel's eight sections is prefaced by a precis of macro-historical events that actually took place in the year of the fictional Ramundos' life in the subsequent section, usually from an anarchist or Marxist perspective. The narrator frequently interrupts this fictional narrative to note how her own research verifies the subjective accounts of the characters from these interruptions it is clear the narrator must be a character in the novel, but which character is never revealed. Ida Ramundo's mother was secretly Jewish, but subject to epilepsy, bouts of violence, and paranoia, eventually drowning herself in a poorly planned escape...
Clear History is a 2013 American comedy television film directed by Greg Mottola, written by Larry David, Alec Berg, David Mandel and Jeff Schaffer, and starring David, Kate Hudson, Danny McBride, Philip Baker Hall, Jon Hamm, Michael Keaton, Eva Mendes, Amy Ryan, Bill Hader and J. B. Smoove. The film premiered on August 10, 2013, on HBO.  Plot  In 2003, bearded, long-haired Nathan Flomm is an opinionated, obnoxious business associate of Will Haney, whose company in San Jose, California, is about to introduce a new electric car. Flomm objects to the car being named the Howard after Haney's son, who is himself named after Howard Roark, hero of The Fountainhead. After Flomm accepts a severance package to cut ties with the company, he becomes a ridiculed public figure when the Howard is a huge success, costing Flomm what would have been his share - a billion dollars. Ten years later, a balding, clean-shaven Flomm has changed his name to Rolly DaVore and moved to Martha's Vineyard, beginning a new life and making new acquaintances. They include new best friend Frank, now former lover Wendy, and local building contractor Mr. McKenzie. Frank takes Flomm to a surprise birthday...
Robert Roswell Palmer was an American historian. Specializing in eighteenth-century France, he is best known for The Age of the Democratic Revolution: A Political History of Europe and America, 1760-1800 , which examined the Atlantic Revolutions, an age of democratic revolution that swept Europe and the Americas between 1760 and 1800. He was awarded the Bancroft Prize in History for the first volume. Palmer also achieved distinction as a history text writer.  Life  Born in Chicago, Illinois, Palmer accelerated through the public schools. By winning a citywide contest for a play written in Latin, he earned a full scholarship to the University of Chicago where he studied with the historian Louis Gottschalk and earned his bachelor's degree in 1931. He received his Ph.D. in History from Cornell University three years later, studying with Carl L. Becker. His dissertation was The French Idea of American Independence on the Eve of the French Revolution - publishedcreated 1934. Palmer began teaching at Princeton University as an instructor in 1936, and worked there for nearly three decades, becoming a full professor. He was dean...
This article details the history of the Marquesas. The Marquesas Islands are a group of volcanic islands in French Polynesia, an overseas collectivity of France in the southern Pacific Ocean. The Marquesas Islands comprise one of the five administrative divisions of French Polynesia.  Prehistory  The first recorded settlers of the Marquesas were Polynesians. Based on a variety of archological evidence, researchers at one time believed they arrived between 100-600 A.D. This is well documented on the creation myth legend of Hawaiiloa, Ki and Kanaloa. Ethnological and linguistic evidence suggests that a second wave likely arrived from the western region of Tonga. A 2010 study using revised, high-precision radiocarbon dating suggested that the period of eastern Polynesian colonization took place much later, in a shorter time frame of two waves: the earliest in the Society Islands A.D. 1025-1120, four centuries later than previously assumed then after 70-265 y, dispersal continued in one major pulse to all remaining islands A.D. 1190-1290. This rapid colonization is believed to account for the remarkable uniformity of East Polynesia culture, biology and language. As of 2014...
The history of the Arabs is recorded to have begun in the mid-9th century BCE, corresponding with the earliest known attestation of Old Arabic. Arab ancestry according to tradition in Islam holds that Arabs are the descendants of Ishmael, who was the son of the Hebrew patriarch Abraham and his Egyptian concubine Hagar. The Syrian Desert, which includes an extension of the Arabian Peninsula, is the home of the first attested Arab groups, as well as other defined Arab groups that spread in the land and existed for millennia. Before the expansion of the Rashidun Caliphate during the early Muslim conquests, the word Arab referred to any of the largely nomadic or settled Arab tribes in the Arabian Peninsula, the Levant, and Upper and Lower Mesopotamia. Today, Arab refers to a variety of large numbers of people whose native regions form the Arab world due to Arab migrations and the concurrent spread of the Arabic language throughout the region, namely the Levant and the Maghreb, following the rise of Islam in the 7th century. During this period, they forged the Rashidun Caliphate , the Umayyad Caliphate , and the Abbasid Caliphate . These Arab...
The history of the Jews in Germany goes back at least to the year 321 AD, and continued through the Early Middle Ages and High Middle Ages when Jewish immigrants from France founded the Ashkenazi Jewish community. The community survived under Charlemagne, but suffered during the Crusades. Accusations of well poisoning during the Black Death led to mass slaughter of German Jews, while others fled in large numbers to Poland. The Jewish communities of the cities of Mainz, Speyer and Worms became the center of Jewish life during medieval times. This was a golden age as area bishops protected the Jews, resulting in increased trade and prosperity. The First Crusade began an era of persecution of Jews in Germany. Entire communities, like those of Trier, Worms, Mainz and Cologne, were slaughtered. The Hussite Wars became the signal for renewed persecution of Jews. The end of the 15th century was a period of religious hatred that ascribed to Jews all possible evils. With Napoleon's fall in 1815, growing nationalism resulted in increasing repression. From August to October 1819, pogroms that came to be known as the Hep-Hep riots took...
Nikolay Mikhailovich Karamzin 12 December 1766 - 3 June 1826 was a Russian historian, writer, poet and critic. He is best remembered for his fundamental History of the Russian State, a 12-volume national history.  Early life  Karamzin was born in the small village of Mikhailovka modern-day Karamzinka village of Maynsky District, Ulyanovsk Oblast, Russia near Simbirsk in the Znamenskoye family estate. Another version exists that he was born in 1765 in the Mikhailovka village of the Orenburg Governorate modern-day Preobrazhenka village of the Orenburg Oblast, Russia where his father served, and in recent years Orenburg historians have been actively disputing the official version. His father Mikhail Yegorovich Karamzin was a retired captain of the Imperial Russian Army who belonged to the Russian noble family of modest means founded by Semyon Karamzin in 1606. For many years its members had served in Nizhny Novgorod as high-ranking officers and officials before Nikolay's grandfather Yegor Karamzin moved to Simbirsk with his wife Ekaterina Aksakova of the ancient Aksakov dynasty related to Sergey Aksakov. According to Nikolay Karamzin...
The term new history, from the French term nouvelle histoire , was coined by Jacques Le Goff and Pierre Nora, leaders of the third generation of the Annales school, in the 1970s. The movement can be associated with cultural history, history of representations, and histoire des mentalits. The new history movement's inclusive definition of the proper matter of historical study has also given it the label total history. The movement was contrasted with the traditional ways of writing history which focused on politics and great men. The new history rejected any insistence on composing historical narrative an emphasis on administrative documents as basic source materials concern with individuals' motivations and intentions as explanatory factors for historical events and the old belief in objectivity. The approach was rejected by Marxist historians because it downplayed what Marxists believed was the central role of class in shaping history.  History in schools  The teaching of history in French schools was influenced by the nouvelle histoire, as disseminated in the 1960s and 1970s by Cahiers pdagogiques and Enseignement 70 and other journals...
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling, often known simply as Tom Jones, is a comic novel by English playwright and novelist Henry Fielding. It is a Bildungsroman and a picaresque novel. It was first published on 28 February 1749 in London and is among the earliest English works to be classified as a novel. It is the earliest novel mentioned by W. Somerset Maugham in his 1948 book Great Novelists and Their Novels, in which Maugham ranks the ten best novels of the world. The novel is highly organised despite its length. Samuel Taylor Coleridge argued that it has one of the three most perfect plots ever planned, alongside Oedipus Rex by Sophocles and The Alchemist by Ben Jonson. It became a best-seller, with four editions published in its first year alone. It is generally regarded as Fielding's greatest book and as an influential English novel.  Plot  The wealthy Squire Allworthy and his sister Bridget are introduced in their estate in Somerset. Allworthy returns from London after an extended business trip and finds an abandoned baby sleeping in his bed. He summons his housekeeper, Mrs Deborah Wilkins, to take care of the child. After searching the nearby village Mrs Wilkins is told...
The history of the Jews in Russia goes back to the beginnings of the Russian state. At one time, the Russian Empire hosted the largest population of Jews in the world. Within these territories, the primarily Ashkenazi Jewish communities of many different areas flourished and developed many of modern Judaism's most distinctive theological and cultural traditions, and they also faced periods of antisemitic discriminatory policies and persecution, including violent pogroms. Many analysts have documented a renaissance in the Jewish community inside Russia since the beginning of the 21st century however, the Russian Jewish population has experienced precipitous decline since the dissolution of the USSR which continues to this day, although it is still among the largest in Europe.  Overview and background  The largest group among Russian Jews are Ashkenazi Jews, but the community also includes a significant proportion of non-Ashkenazi from other Jewish diaspora including Mountain Jews, Sephardi Jews, Georgian Jews, Crimean Karaites, Krymchaks and Bukharan Jews. The presence of Jewish people in the European part of Russia can be traced to the 7th-14th centuries AD. In the 11th and 12th...
The Commonwealth of Australia was proclaimed on 1 January 1901 as a federation of six self-governing former British colonies. The human history of Australia, however, commences with the arrival of the first ancestors of Aboriginal Australians from Maritime Southeast Asia between 50,000 and 65,000 years ago, and continues to the present multicultural democracy. Aboriginal Australians settled throughout continental Australia and many nearby islands. The artistic, musical and spiritual traditions they established are among the longest surviving in human history. The ancestors of today's ethnically and culturally distinct Torres Strait Islanders arrived from what is now Papua New Guinea around 2,500 years ago, and settled the islands on the northern tip of the Australian landmass. Dutch navigators explored the western and southern coasts in the 17th century and named the continent New Holland. Macassan trepangers visited Australia's northern coasts from around 1720, and possibly earlier. In 1770, Lieutenant James Cook charted the east coast of Australia and claimed it for Great Britain. He returned to London with accounts favouring colonisation at Botany Bay. The First Fleet of British...
Life history may refer to: Life history theory, a theory of biological evolution that seeks to explain aspects of organisms' anatomy and behavior by reference to the way that their life histories have been shaped by natural selection Life history , the overall picture of an informant's or interviewee's life Medical life history, information gained by a physician by asking specific questions of a patient  See also  Life cycle
A credit history is a record of a borrower's responsible repayment of debts. A credit report is a record of the borrower's credit history from a number of sources, including banks, credit card companies, collection agencies, and governments. A borrower's credit score is the result of a mathematical algorithm applied to a credit report and other sources of information to predict future delinquency. In many countries, when a customer submits an application for credit from a bank, credit card company, or a store, their information is forwarded to a credit bureau. The credit bureau matches the name, address and other identifying information on the credit applicant with information retained by the bureau in its files. The gathered records are then used by lenders to determine an individual's credit worthiness that is, determining an individual's ability and track record of repaying a debt. The willingness to repay a debt is indicated by how timely past payments have been made to other lenders. Lenders like to see consumer debt obligations paid regularly and on time, and therefore focus particularly on missed payments and may not, for example, consider an overpayment as an offset for a...
The history of Lithuania dates back to settlements founded about 10,000 years ago, but the first written record of the name for the country dates back to 1009 AD. Lithuanians, one of the Baltic peoples, later conquered neighbouring lands and established the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in the 13th century and also a short-lived Kingdom of Lithuania. The Grand Duchy was a successful and lasting warrior state. It remained fiercely independent and was one of the last areas of Europe to adopt Christianity . A formidable power, it became the largest state in Europe in the 15th century spread from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea, through the conquest of large groups of East Slavs who resided in Ruthenia. In 1385, the Grand Duchy formed a dynastic union with Poland through the Union of Krewo. Later, the Union of Lublin created the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. During the Second Northern War, the Grand Duchy sought protection under the Swedish Empire through the Union of Kdainiai in 1655. However, it soon returned to being a part of the Polish-Lithuanian state, which persisted until 1795 when the last of the Partitions of Poland erased both independent...
The history of tea spreads across many cultures throughout thousands of years. The tea plant Camellia sinensis is both native and probably originated in the borderlands of China and northern Myanmar. One of the earliest accounts of tea drinking is dated back to China's Shang dynasty, in which tea was consumed in a medicinal concoction. One traditional method of preparing tea involves steeping loose tea leaves in a teapot and straining them into a cup, a practice that became common in Europe following the introduction of tea by Chinese traders. An early credible record of tea drinking dates to the 3rd century AD, in a medical text written by Chinese physician Hua Tuo. It first became known to the western world through Portuguese priests and merchants in China during the early 16th century. Drinking tea became popular in Britain during the 17th century. To compete with the Chinese monopoly on tea, the British East India Company introduced commercial tea production to British India.  Geographic origins  Camellia sinensis originated specifically around the intersection of latitude 29N and longitude 98E, the point of confluence of the lands of southwest China, Tibet, north Myanmar...
Black history refers to: History of Africa History of the African diaspora, particularly: African-American history, for the United States History of Afro-Arab peoples Afro-Brazilian history History of Black British people History of Black Canadians Afro-Caribbean history History of Afro-Latin Americans  See also  Black History for Action, a lecture and discussion forum in the UK Black History Month, celebrated in February in North America and October in Great Britain
The following is a timeline of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer history in the 21st century.  2000s  2001 Same-sex marriages laws: Came into effect: The Netherlands Civil UnionRegistered Partnership laws: Came into effect: Germany without adoption until Oct 2004, then with step-adoption only Passed: Finland without joint adoption until May 2009, then with step-adoption Limited Partnership laws: Passed and Came into effect: Portugal Came into effect: Swiss canton of Geneva Anti-discrimination legislation: US states of Rhode Island and Maryland Equalization of age of consent: Albania, Estonia, Liechtenstein and United Kingdom. Repeal of Sodomy laws: US state of Arizona Decriminalisation of homosexuality: the rest of the United Kingdom's territories Homosexuality no longer an illness: China Marches and Prides: Protesters disrupt the first Pride march in the Serbian capital city of Belgrade The first memorial in the United States honoring LGBT veterans was dedicated in Desert Memorial...
The history of coffee spans many centuries. Wild coffee plants originated in Ethiopia, while the beverage itself has its roots in Yemen, where it was harvested, roasted and brewed Sufi Muslims in the 15th century used it to aid concentration during night prayers. From Yemen, coffee spread to Mecca and the wider Arabian Peninsula, and by the early 16th century it had reached Cairo, Damascus, and Istanbul. Debates over its permissibility arose in Muslim society, but it soon became a central part of urban social life. Through Mediterranean trade routes, coffee entered Europe in the mid-16th century through Italy and other Mediterranean regions. Coffee houses were established in Western Europe by the late 17th century, especially in Holland, England, and Germany. Up to the end of the 17th century, the Yemeni port of Mocha was the world's sole gateway for coffee, but as demand grew, cultivation spread to other parts of the world. One of the earliest cultivations of coffee in the New World was when Gabriel de Clieu brought coffee seedlings to Martinique in 1720, from which it spread to other Caribbean islands such as Saint-Domingue and also to Mexico. By 1788, Saint-Domingue supplied half...
The history of the Philippines dates from the earliest hominin activity in the archipelago at least by 709,000 years ago. Homo luzonensis, a species of archaic humans, was present on the island of Luzon at least by 134,000 years ago. The earliest known anatomically modern human was from Tabon Caves in Palawan dating about 47,000 years. Negrito groups were the first inhabitants to settle in the prehistoric Philippines. These were followed by Austroasiatics, Papuans, and Austronesians. By around 3000 BCE, seafaring Austronesians, who form the majority of the current population, migrated southward from Taiwan. Scholars generally believe that these ethnic and social groups eventually developed into various settlements or polities with varying degrees of economic specialization, social stratification, and political organization. Some of these settlements mostly those located on major river deltas achieved such a scale of social complexity that some scholars believe they should be considered early states. This includes the predecessors of modern-day population centers such as Manila, Tondo, Pangasinan, Cebu, Panay, Bohol, Butuan, Cotabato, Lanao, Zamboanga, and Sulu as well as some polities...
The racial and ethnic history of New York City has varied widely, from its sale to the Dutch by Native American residents, to the modern multi-cultural period. New York City has had a largely white population, and most foreign-born immigrants to the city before the end of World War II were from Europe. However, this changed in the decades after World War II, when all of the boroughs became less white, and when immigration from places outside Europe was increased largely due to the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965.  Overview  The population of New York City was over 90 Non-Hispanic White until the post-World War II era. Large numbers of Blacks, Hispanics, or Asians began settling in Manhattan in the 1920s and in the rest of NYC after World War II. The slowest area in the city to change its racial makeup was Staten Island, which was the only borough of New York City to retain a Non-Hispanic White majority after the 1980s. Between 1900 and 2010, New York City's total Black population increased by about thirty-five times, while its Asian population increased by over one-hundred-and-fifty times over the same period. The large Black migration to New York City helped form the...
Historical method is the collection of techniques and guidelines that historians use to research and write histories of the past. Secondary sources, primary sources and material evidence such as that derived from archaeology may all be drawn on. The historian's skill lies in identifying these sources, evaluating their relative authority, and combining their testimony appropriately in order to construct an accurate and reliable picture of past events and environments. In the philosophy of history, the question of the nature, and the possibility, of a sound historical method is raised within the sub-field of epistemology. The study of historical method and of different ways of writing history is known as historiography. Though historians agree in very general and basic principles, in practice specific canons of historical proof are neither widely observed nor generally agreed upon among professional historians. Some scholars of history have observed that there are no particular standards for historical fields such as religion, art, science, democracy, and social justice as these are by their nature 'essentially contested' fields, such that they require diverse tools particular to each...
The programming language Python was conceived in the late 1980s, and its implementation was started in December 1989 by Guido van Rossum at CWI in the Netherlands as a successor to ABC capable of exception handling and interfacing with the Amoeba operating system. Van Rossum was Python's principal author and had a central role in deciding the direction of Python as reflected in the title given to him by the Python community, Benevolent Dictator for Life  until stepping down as leader on July 12, 2018. Python was named after the BBC TV show Monty Python's Flying Circus. Python 2.0 was released on October 16, 2000, with many major new features, such as list comprehensions, cycle-detecting garbage collector, reference counting, memory management and support for Unicode, along with a change to the development process itself, with a shift to a more transparent and community-backed process. Python 3.0, a major, backwards-incompatible release, was released on December 3, 2008 after a long period of testing. Many of its major features were also backported to the backwards-compatible Python versions 2.6 and 2.7 until support for Python 2 finally ceased at the beginning of 2020. Releases...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 757 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Within artificial intelligence , explainable AI , generally overlapping with interpretable AI, interpretable machine learning and explainable machine learning , is a field of research that explores methods that provide humans with the ability of intellectual oversight over AI algorithms. The main focus is on the reasoning behind the decisions or predictions made by the AI algorithms, to make them more understandable and transparent. This addresses the need for users to know the safety of the algorithms and scrutinize the automated decision-making in applications. AI counters the black box tendency of machine learning, where even the AI's designers cannot explain why it arrived at a specific decision. AI seeks to help users of AI-powered systems perform more effectively by improving their understanding of how those systems reason. AI may be an implementation of the social right to explanation. Even if there is no such legal right or regulatory requirement, AI can improve the user experience of a product or service by helping end users trust that the AI is making good decisions. AI aims to explain what has been done, what is being done, what will be done next, and...
In logic, statistical inference, and supervised learning, transduction or transductive inference is reasoning from observed, specific cases to specific cases. In contrast, induction is reasoning from observed training cases to general rules, which are then applied to the test cases. The distinction is most interesting in cases where the predictions of the transductive model are not achievable by any inductive model. Note that this is caused by transductive inference on different test sets producing mutually inconsistent predictions. Transduction was introduced in a computer science context by Vladimir Vapnik in the 1990s, motivated by his view that transduction is preferable to induction since, according to him, induction requires solving a more general problem before solving a more specific problem : When solving a problem of interest, do not solve a more general problem as an intermediate step. Try to get the answer that you really need but not a more general one.. An example of learning which is not inductive would be in the case of binary classification, where the inputs tend to cluster in two groups. A...
The Alignment Problem: Machine Learning and Human Values is a 2020 non-fiction book by the American writer Brian Christian. It is based on numerous interviews with experts trying to build artificial intelligence systems, particularly machine learning systems, that are aligned with human values.  Summary  The book is divided into three sections: Prophecy, Agency, and Normativity. Each section covers researchers and engineers working on different challenges in the alignment of artificial intelligence with human values.  Prophecy  In the first section, Christian interweaves discussions of the history of artificial intelligence research, particularly the machine learning approach of artificial neural networks such as the Perceptron and AlexNet, with examples of how AI systems can have unintended behavior. He tells the story of Julia Angwin, a journalist whose ProPublica investigation of the COMPAS algorithm, a tool for predicting recidivism among criminal defendants, led to widespread criticism of its accuracy and bias towards certain demographics. One of AI's main alignment challenges is its black box nature inputs and outputs are identifiable but the transformation process in...
Fairness in machine learning refers to the various attempts to correct algorithmic bias in automated decision processes based on ML models. Decisions made by such models after a learning process may be considered unfair if they were based on variables considered sensitive e.g., gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or disability. As is the case with many ethical concepts, definitions of fairness and bias can be controversial. In general, fairness and bias are considered relevant when the decision process impacts people's lives. Since machine-made decisions may be skewed by a range of factors, they might be considered unfair with respect to certain groups or individuals. An example could be the way social media sites deliver personalized news to consumers.  Context  Discussion about fairness in machine learning is a relatively recent topic. Since 2016 there has been a sharp increase in research into the topic. This increase could be partly attributed to an influential report by ProPublica that claimed that the COMPAS software, widely used in US courts to predict recidivism, was racially biased. One topic of research and discussion is the definition of fairness, as there is...
Automated machine learning is the process of automating the tasks of applying machine learning to real-world problems. It is the combination of automation and ML. AutoML potentially includes every stage from beginning with a raw dataset to building a machine learning model ready for deployment. AutoML was proposed as an artificial intelligence-based solution to the growing challenge of applying machine learning. The high degree of automation in AutoML aims to allow non-experts to make use of machine learning models and techniques without requiring them to become experts in machine learning. Automating the process of applying machine learning end-to-end additionally offers the advantages of producing simpler solutions, faster creation of those solutions, and models that often outperform hand-designed models. Common techniques used in AutoML include hyperparameter optimization, meta-learning and neural architecture search.  Comparison to the standard approach  In a typical machine learning application, practitioners have a set of input data points to be used for training. The raw data may not be in a form that all algorithms can be applied to. To make the data amenable for...
LoRA is a parameter-efficient fine-tuning technique for large language models and other deep neural networks. Introduced in 2021 by researchers at Microsoft, LoRA enables adaptation of pre-trained models to specific tasks while requiring significantly fewer computational resources and trainable parameters than traditional full model fine-tuning.  Background  The development of increasingly large language models in the late 2010s and early 2020s created substantial computational challenges. GPT-1, released in 2018 with 117 million parameters, cost less than 50,000 to train. GPT-2, released in 2019 with 1.5 billion parameters, required 40,000 to train. By 2020, GPT-3 scaled to 175 billion parameters, with training costs estimated between 500,000 and 4.6 million. Training consumed approximately 1,287 megawatt-hours of electricity. GPT-4, released in 2023, required over 100 million to train and consumed approximately 50 gigawatt-hours of energy using 25,000 Nvidia A100 GPUs running for 90 to 100 days. GPT-5, released in August 2025, required individual training runs costing over 500 million each, with total training costs estimated between 1.25 billion and...
Machine learning in bioinformatics is the application of machine learning algorithms to bioinformatics, including genomics, proteomics, microarrays, systems biology, evolution, and text mining. Prior to the emergence of machine learning, bioinformatics algorithms had to be programmed by hand for problems such as protein structure prediction, this proved difficult. Machine learning techniques such as deep learning can learn features of data sets rather than requiring the programmer to define them individually. The algorithm can further learn how to combine low-level features into more abstract features, and so on. This multi-layered approach allows such systems to make sophisticated predictions when appropriately trained. These methods contrast with other computational biology approaches which, while exploiting existing datasets, do not allow the data to be interpreted and analyzed in unanticipated ways.  Tasks  Machine learning algorithms in bioinformatics can be used for prediction, classification, and feature detection and selection. Classification or recognition algorithms output a categorical class, while prediction algorithms output a numerical valued feature. Algorithms differ...
Aquilone was one of eight Turbine-class destroyers built for the Regia Marina during the late 1920s. She was named after Aquilone, a cold northerly wind.  Design and description  The Turbine-class destroyers were enlarged and improved versions of the preceding Sauro class. They had an overall length of 93.2 meters , a beam of 9.2 meters and a mean draft of 3 meters . They displaced 1,090 metric tons at standard load, and 1,700 metric tons at deep load. Their complement was 12 officers and 167 enlisted men. The Turbines were powered by two Parsons geared steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft using steam supplied by three Thornycroft boilers. The turbines were rated at 40,000 shaft horsepower for a speed of 33 knots in service, although Aquilone reached a speed of 39.5 knots during her sea trials while lightly loaded. They carried enough fuel oil to give them a range of 3,200 nautical miles at a speed of 14 knots . Their main battery consisted of four 120-millimeter guns in two twin...
The Bird with the Crystal Plumage Italian: L'uccello dalle piume di cristallo is a 1970 giallo film written and directed by Dario Argento, in his directorial debut. It stars Tony Musante as an American writer in Rome who witnesses a serial killer targeting young women and tries to uncover the murderer's identity before he becomes their next victim. The cast also features Suzy Kendall, Enrico Maria Salerno, Eva Renzi, Umberto Raho and Mario Adorf. A co-production of Italy and West Germany, The Bird with the Crystal Plumage is the first in what has been called Argento's thematic Animal Trilogy, along with his next two gialli, The Cat o' Nine Tails and Four Flies on Grey Velvet . Argento's screenplay borrows liberally from Fredric Brown's 1949 novel The Screaming Mimi, which had previously been adapted into a 1958 American film. An international commercial and critical success on release, The Bird with the Crystal Plumage has been credited with popularizing giallo, an Italian genre of horror-thriller developed in the 1960s, and launched Argento's career as a filmmaker.  Plot  Sam Dalmas is an American writer vacationing in Rome with his English model girlfriend, Julia...
Kyai Khti Saung Pagoda is a Buddhist pagoda in Bilin, Mon State, Myanmar.  Geography  Kyaik Htee Saung Pagoda is located on a laterite stone hillock near the town of Bilin. The hillock itself is formed by the layering of laterite stones on top of one another, forming a large square that gradually tapers upward.  History  According to tradition, in the Buddhist Era 111, Gautama Buddha arrived at Kaylartha Mountain, Thuwunna Bonmi and preached to hermits and monks and then gave them pieces of his hair. Along with the hermits and monks, two belu brothers named Deiwa Kondala and Namani Kondala also received one piece of hair. In the Buddhist Era 113, the two brothers built a pagoda on a stone hill known as Mya Oo Taung and enclosed the hair in it. The pagoda was originally 63 cubits high and it was called Kyaik Kalookdek, meaning A Pagoda Built by Devas in the Mon language. The sacred hair of Buddha was put in a gold casket and enshrined in the pagoda. Daughters of the ogre brothers cut their hair to make ropes to put around the gold casket. So, the pagoda was called Kyaik Zoke Thoke, or Hair-Rope Pagoda in the Mon language. The village near the...
The National Institute of Public Administration, Arabic:    , romanized: al-Mahad al-Waan li l-Idrat al-Ammh French: Institut national d'administration is a Syrian government school responsible for the training of civil servants in management and administration. Its main office and training center is located in At-Tal, near Damascus.  History  The Institute was created in 2002 to support the modernization of civil service in Syria. INA was the fruit of cooperation between France and Syria. The French cole nationale d'administration provided technical assistance from 2001 to 2011.  Mission  The founding principle of the Institute National d'Administration is to provide professional training for senior civil servants. The Institute emphasizes the ethics of government service, based on the values of responsibility, political neutrality and service. INA uses a broad approach that cuts across ministerial or specialist lines and includes law, public finance, applied economics, Arab, regional and international issues, local regions and e-government. public-sector management, including team and project management, monitoring...
Challis railway station is a suburban railway station in Kelmscott, a suburb of Perth, Western Australia. It is on the Armadale line which is part of the Transperth network, and is 27.3 kilometres southwest of Perth station and 3.1 kilometres north of Armadale station. The station opened on 29 October 1973, as did the adjacent Sherwood station, filling the large gap between Armadale station and Kelmscott station. It consists of two side platforms with a pedestrian level crossing. It is not fully accessible due to steep ramps and wide gaps at the pedestrian level crossing. Services are operated by Transperth Train Operations, a division of the state government's Public Transport Authority. Peak services reach seven trains per hour in each direction, whilst off-peak services are four trains per hour. The station is one of the least used ones on the Transperth network, with just 259 boardings per day in October 2017. The City of Armadale rezoned nearby land in the 2010s with the goal of increasing patronage.  Description  Challis station is on the South Western Railway, which links Perth to Bunbury. The northern 30.4 kilometres of this railway, between...
Walter William Strickland, de jure 9th Baronet was an English translator and radical. He became known as the Anarchist Baronet because he wandered around the world for much of his life espousing radical causes. After receiving Czechoslovak citizenship in 1923, he renounced his British citizenship and later moved to Java.  Biography  Strickland was born in Westminster while the family estate was at Hildenley Hall near Malton, North Yorkshire. He was educated at Edinburgh Academy and Trinity College, Cambridge. He was the eldest son of Sir Charles Strickland, 8th Baronet , the only child of his first marriage to Georgina, daughter of Sir William Milner, 4th Baronet, but never formally used the title he inherited upon his father's death. In 1888, he married Eliza Vokes . A polyglot fluent in ancient and modern languages, he wrote several books and pamphlets and translated works of the Czech poet Vtzslav Hlek, as well as Molire and Horace. He has been linked with the Voynich manuscript. He may have met Wilfrid Voynich during his first years in London, when Voynich was directly involved in the political activities of Russian refugees...
Tahirou Congacou was a Beninese politician, most active during the 1960s, when his country was known as Dahomey. He served as President of the National Assembly from 1964 to 1965, and in that capacity served as acting President of Benin from 29 November 1965 to 22 December 1965. He also served as acting foreign minister during 1965.  Early political career  Congacou was born to a Dendi family in 1913 and was a descendant of the Djougou royal house. His ancestors were oral tradition keepers in the kingdom of Djougou. In colonial Dahomey, Congacou served as a subprefect in Nikki. In the aftermath of World War II he was a deputy to the General Council of Dahomey. He also served in the Dahomey territorial assembly from 1952 to 1957. When Hubert Maga was deposed in 1963, Congacou was elected head of the National Assembly, as well as assistant secretary general of the Parti Democratique Dahomeen , the new national party. He served as President of the National Assembly of Dahomey from January 1964 to November 1965.  President of Dahomey  On 29 November 1965, General Christophe Soglo forcibly removed Justin Ahomadgb-Tomtin's mandate. He temporarily handed...
Cannabidiol diacetate is a semi-synthetic derivative of cannabidiol derived by acetylation of the OH groups, which presumably acts as a prodrug for CBD. It has been found as a component of grey-market cannabis products such as e-cigarette liquids and cannabis infused foods.  See also  4'-Fluorocannabidiol 7-Hydroxycannabidiol 8,9-Dihydrocannabidiol Cannabidiol dimethyl ether Delta-6-Cannabidiol H4-CBD KLS-13019 THC-O-acetate  References 
Amarilis may refer to:  People  Amarilis , a 16th-century Peruvian poet Amarilis , an American actor Amarilis Fuentes, an Ecuadorean teacher and suffragist Amarilis Savn, a Cuban judoka Amarilis de Varennes, a Portuguese professor Amarilis Villar, a Venezuelan volleyball player  Places  Amarilis District, a district in Hunuco, Peru  See also  Amaryllis, a genus of flowering bulbs
The 1918 Texas lieutenant gubernatorial election was held on November 5, 1918, in order to elect the lieutenant governor of Texas. Democratic nominee and incumbent member of the Texas Senate Willard Arnold Johnson defeated Republican nominee John C. Scott and Socialist nominee T. L. Hurlburt.  General election  On election day, November 5, 1918, Democratic nominee Willard Arnold Johnson won the election by a margin of 129,926 votes against his foremost opponent Republican nominee John C. Scott, thereby retaining Democratic control over the office of lieutenant governor. Johnson was sworn in as the 25th lieutenant governor of Texas on January 21, 1919.  Results   References 
The 2254922550 Gorakhpur - Prayagraj Vande Bharat Express is India's 25th Vande Bharat Express train, connecting the city of Gorakhpur City via Ayodhya and terminating at the city of Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. This express train is a former of another service which terminated at state capital city Lucknow which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 7 July 2023. This extension was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conferencing from Ahmedabad on March 12, 2024.  Overview  This train is operated by Indian Railways, connecting Gorakhpur Jn, Basti, Ayodhya Dham Jn, Lucknow Charbagh, Rae Bareli Jn and Prayagraj Jn. It is operated with train numbers 2254922550 on 6 days a week basis.  Rakes  It is the twenty-third 2nd Generation Vande Bharat 2.0 which was designed and manufactured by the Integral Coach Factory at Perambur, Chennai under the Make in India Initiative.  Service  The 2254922550 Gorakhpur Jn - Prayagraj Jn Vande Bharat Express operates six days a week except Saturdays, covering a distance of 497 km in a travel time of 7 hours with an average speed of 66 kmh . The service has 5 intermediate stops. The Maximum Permissible...
Kot Sukhia is a village located in Faridkot district of Punjab, India.  Demographics  As per the population census of 2011, the village has population of 4856 of which 2590 are males while 2266 were females. The geographical area of village is about 1468 Hectares. The Postal code of village is 151207. The nearest railway station is Giani Zail Singh Sandhwan which is about 10 kilometers away.  References 
Reliable Source Music is a UK music production and publishing company that provides music to media professionals. RSM creates music for advertising, TV, video, radio, film, multimedia, and corporate use, either off the shelf or written to order. As of March 2019, the company had a library of over 100,000 tracks. This includes RSM's music and sub-publishing deals with other music libraries worldwide.  Key staff  The company was established in 1997 by Dr. Wayne Bickerton, the managing director until November 2015. Following the passing of Dr. Wayne Bickerton in November 2015, the company was sold to Intervox Production Music in October 2017. In January 2019, Martin Weinert was hired as the chairman of the board of Directors alongside Kenny Orr and Gilda Fulco as Directors.  Notable clients  Reliable Source Music has provided music to many TV programs, including Top Gear, The -Files, A Question of Sport, EastEnders, and Doctor Who Confidential. RSM has also supplied music for advertising campaigns for companies such as Easyjet, Johnnie Walker, Persil, and Vodafone.  Composers  Several composers have worked for the company, including Brian Bennett, John Cameron and Wayne...
David 'Dai' Henry Lewis was a Welsh rugby union forward who played club rugby for Canton RFC and Cardiff and international rugby for Wales. After his career as a football player, he was active as a racing cyclist in the United States.  Rugby career  Lewis was first capped for Wales whilst playing for Cardiff. He was selected for Charlie Newman's Wales team to face England in the opening match of the 1886 Home Nations Championship. Lewis was one of four new caps brought into the Welsh pack, alongside fellow Cardiff team-mate George Young, Llanelli's Evan Roberts and Swansea's William Bowen. Wales lost the match narrowly, but the selectors kept faith with Lewis for the next game against Scotland. The Scotland game, played at the Cardiff Arms Park, is noted for being the first international game to see a team use the four threequarter system. With Newman unavailable, the captaincy was passed to Frank Hancock, the Cardiff centre known for introducing the new back formation at club level. With six Cardiff players in the team, including Lewis, it was seen as a good time to experiment the system at international level. The experiment was seen as a failure...
Vetala Bhatta was a Sanskrit author from ancient India. He is known to have written the sixteen stanza Niti-pradeepa Niti-pradpa, literally, the lamp of conduct. He is included among the legendary Navaratnas of Chandragupta II's court. Some historians have also mentioned him as the magician of Chandra Gupta's court. There are also many legends about him told as a stories of Vikram-Vetal. Vikram here is referred to Chandra Gupta II as he was titled Vikramaditya.  References 
Scots Presbyterian Church is a Presbyterian church located at 90 South Terrace, on the corner with Parry Street, in Fremantle, Western Australia. It was the first Presbyterian Church built in Fremantle and one of only six to decline amalgamation with the Uniting Church.  Description  The church is constructed from ashlar limestone with red-brick quoins on the buttresses and window edges. The steeply pitched roof is constructed from timber, originally with jarrah shingles but most recently with terra cotta tiles. When originally built, the church consisted of a nave and an aisle on the north-western side the vestry is at the north-eastern end of the aisle with a connecting tower and porch at the south-western end facing Norfolk Street, which acts as the main entrance. The building style is rustic gothic, composed of stone in irregular coursed work, with red brick moulded windows and door jambs. There are moulded brick dripstones rising from plaster and terra cotta corbels. The window sills, plinths, mouldings and steps of buttresses are rendered in cement stucco. The building's exterior is rough stone and brickwork with the brick pointed, in black and white mortar. The tower is...
Cameraria bethunella is a moth of the family Gracillariidae. It is known from Ontario and Quebec in Canada, and Illinois, Kentucky, Connecticut, Maine, New York and Texas in the United States. The wingspan is 6.5-7.5 mm. The larvae feed on Castanea dentata and Quercus species, including Quercus ilicifolia, Quercus imbricaria, Quercus macrocarpa, Quercus obtusiloba, Quercus rubra, Quercus tinctoria and Quercus velutina. They mine the leaves of their host plant.  References 
Circuit de la Grisire is a motorcycle speedway and flat track venue in Mcon, France. It is located on the north-west outskirts of the city in the Parc des Sports et des Loisirs and is run by the Association Moto Club de Mcon .  List of major events  The venue has increasingly hosted important speedway meetings in recent years. 2017 Individual Speedway Junior European Championship semi final 2021 European Pairs Speedway Championship final 2022 European Pairs Speedway Championship semi final 2023 European Under 23 Team Speedway Championship final 2024 Speedway Under 21 World Championship Qualifier 2025 European Under 24 Team Speedway Championship  References 
La Malquerida is the sixth album by the Mexican singer Mariana Seoane, launched in 2012.  Track listing  Me Equivoqu Una de Dos Que No Me Faltes T Mermelada La Malquerida La Maana Nadie Me Lo Cont Loca Atrvete a Mirarme de Frente No Vuelvo Contigo El Pueblo Tan Slo Puedo Amarte  References 
Computer addiction is a form of behavioral addiction that can be described as the excessive or compulsive use of the computer, which persists despite serious negative consequences for personal, social, or occupational function. Another clear conceptualization is made by J. J. Block, who stated in a journal entry for the American Journal of Psychiatry that Conceptually, the diagnosis is a compulsive-impulsive spectrum disorder that involves online andor offline computer usage and consists of at least three subtypes: excessive gaming, sexual preoccupations, and e-mailtext messaging. Computer addiction is not currently included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders as an official disorder. The concept of computer addiction is broadly divided into two types, namely offline computer addiction, and online computer addiction. Offline computer addiction is normally used when speaking about excessive gaming behavior, which can be practiced both offline and online. Online computer addiction, also known as Internet addiction, gets more attention in general from scientific research than offline computer addiction, mainly because most cases of computer addiction...
Role-playing video games , also known as computer role-playing games , comprise a broad video game genre generally defined by a detailed story and character advancement often through increasing characters' levels or other skills. Role-playing games almost always feature combat as a defining feature and traditionally used turn-based combat however, modern role-playing games commonly feature real-time action combat or even non-violent forms of conflict resolution . Furthermore, many games have incorporated role-playing elements such as character advancement and quests while remaining within other genres. Role-playing video games have their origins in tabletop role-playing games and use much of the same terminology, settings, and game mechanics. Other major similarities with pen-and-paper games include developed story-telling and narrative elements, player-character development, and elaborately designed fantasy worlds. The electronic medium takes the place of the gamemaster, resolving combat on its own and determining the game's response to different player actions. RPGs have evolved from simple text-based console-window games into...
The Melissa virus was a mass-mailing macro virus released by David L. Smith of Aberdeen Township, New Jersey on March 26, 1999. Melissa spread through infected Microsoft Word documents. When a recipient opened one, the virus used Microsoft Outlook to send copies to the first 50 entries in the user's address book. The messages appeared to come from known contacts, so recipients were more likely to open the attachment. Melissa did not ordinarily delete files, but the volume of email it generated overloaded mail servers, disrupted about one million email accounts and led some organizations to suspend email service. The Federal Bureau of Investigation estimated that cleanup and repair costs reached 80 million and described Melissa as the fastest-spreading computer infection at the time. Smith was arrested less than a week after the virus release, pleaded guilty to state and federal computer offenses that December, and was sentenced in 2002 to 20 months in federal prison.  Release and initial spread  On March 26, 1999, David L. Smith used a stolen AOL account to post an infected Microsoft Word document to the Internet newsgroup alt.sex. The accompanying message claimed that the...
A brain-computer interface , sometimes called a brain-machine interface , is a direct communication link between the brain's electrical activity and an external device, most commonly a computer or robotic limb. BCIs are often directed at researching, mapping, assisting, augmenting, or repairing human cognitive or sensory-motor functions. Due to the cortical plasticity of the brain, signals from implanted prostheses can, after adaptation, be handled by the brain like natural sensor or effector channels. They are often conceptualized as a human-machine interface that skips the intermediary of moving body parts . BCI implementations range from non-invasive and partially invasive to invasive based on how physically close electrodes are to brain tissue. Research on BCIs began in the 1970s by Jacques Vidal at the University of California, Los Angeles under a grant from the National Science Foundation. This was followed by a contract from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency that prompted further research into the technology. Vidal's 1973 paper introduced the expression brain...
The history of computer science began long before the modern discipline of computer science, usually appearing in forms like mathematics or physics. Developments in previous centuries alluded to the discipline that we now know as computer science. This progression, from mechanical inventions and mathematical theories towards modern computer concepts and machines, led to the development of a major academic field, massive technological advancement across the Western world, and the basis of massive worldwide trade and culture.  Early history  The earliest known tool for use in computation was the abacus, developed in the period between 2700 and 2300 BCE in Sumer. The Sumerians' abacus consisted of a table of successive columns which delimited the successive orders of magnitude of their sexagesimal number system. Its original style of usage was by lines drawn in sand with pebbles. Abaci of a more modern design are still used as calculation tools today, such as the Chinese abacus. In the 5th century BC in ancient India, the grammarian Pini formulated the grammar of Sanskrit in 3959 rules known as the Ashtadhyayi which was highly systematized and technical. Panini used metarules, transformations...
Bass Computer is the second studio album by American Miami bass artist Techmaster P.E.B. It was released on September 1, 1991, through Newtown Records. Recording sessions took place at Midtek Studios in Sarasota, Florida. The album reached number one on the Billboard Heatseekers chart on April 25, 1992, also reaching number 132 on the Billboard 200 on June 13, 1992.  Track listing   References   External links  Bass Computer at Discogs
A computer system resource is any hardware or software aspect of limited availability that is accessible to a computer system. Like any resource, computer system resources can be exhausted, and issues arise due to scarcity. Resource management, a key aspect of designing hardware and software, includes preventing resource leaks and handling resource contention when multiple processes want to access the same resource. Computing resources are used in cloud computing to provide services through networks.  Fragmentation  A linearly addressable resource, such as memory and storage, can be used for an allocation that is either contiguous or non-contiguous. For example, dynamic memory is generally allocated as a contiguous block that consists of a portion of memory from a starting address and running for a certain length. On the other hand, storage space is typically allocated by a file system as non-contiguous blocks throughout the storage device even though consumers of a file can treat it as a linear sequence logically contiguous. The resource has an overall capacity as well as the capacity to support an allocation of a certain size. For example...
The Z1 was a motor-driven mechanical computer designed by German inventor Konrad Zuse from 1936 to 1937, which he built in his parents' home from 1936 to 1938. It was a binary, electrically driven, mechanical calculator, with limited programmability, reading instructions from punched celluloid film. The Z1 was the first freely programmable computer in the world that used Boolean logic and binary floating-point numbers however, it was unreliable in operation. It was completed in 1938 and financed completely by private funds. This computer was destroyed in the bombardment of Berlin in December 1943, during World War II, together with all construction plans. The Z1 was the first in a series of computers that Zuse designed. Its original name was V1 for Versuchsmodell 1 . After WW2, it was renamed Z1 to differentiate it from the flying bombs designed by Robert Lusser. The Z2 and Z3 were follow-ups based on many of the same ideas as the Z1.  Design  The Z1 contained almost all the parts of a modern computer, i.e. control unit, memory, micro sequences, floating-point logic, and input-output devices. The Z1 was freely programmable via punched tape and...
The 3M computer industrial goal was first proposed in the early 1980s by Raj Reddy and his colleagues at Carnegie Mellon University as a minimum specification for academic and technical workstations. It requires at least one megabyte of memory, a one megapixel display with 10241024 1-bit pixels, and one million instructions per second of processing power. It was also often said that it should cost no more than one megapenny or 10,000 . At that time, a typical desktop computer such as an early IBM Personal Computer might have 18 of a megabyte of memory , 14 of a million pixels , and run at 13 million instructions per second . The concept was inspired by the erox Alto which had been designed in the 1970s at the erox Palo Alto Research Center. Several Alto workstations were donated to CMU, Stanford, and MIT in 1979. An early 3M computer is the PERQ Workstation made by Three Rivers Computer Corporation. It has a 1 million P-codes per second processor, 256 KB of RAM , and a 7681024 pixel display on a 15-inch display. Though not quite a...
Parallan Computer, Inc., was an American computer company active from 1986 to 1999 and based in Mountain View, California. The company was best known for their line of servers and collaborations with IBM for the latter's PS2 Server range. In 1994, the company merged with Meridian Data, Inc., assuming the latter's name and marketing CD-ROM servers before moving into the network-attached storage market with the Snap! Server. In 1999, Quantum Corporation acquired Meridian Data for 85 million.  History  Parallan Computer was founded in July 1986 in Mountain View, California, by Gianluca Rattazzi, Charlie Bass, and William Patton. Rattazzi, Parallan's principal founder and president, was previously the manager for Olivetti's personal computing division. Bass had founded Ungermann-Bass, a computer networking company, in 1977 he was named Parallan's chairman. Patton was formerly the CEO of Management Assistance, Inc., a pioneering mini- and microcomputer company. Parallan was founded to specialize in a class of servers known as application servers, designing their machines with multiple microprocessors to ensure high availability. The company targeted their products at large corporations...
Computer is an IEEE Computer Society practitioner-oriented magazine issued to all members of the society. It contains peer-reviewed articles, regular columns, and interviews on current computing-related issues. Computer provides information regarding current research developments, trends, best practices, and changes in the computing profession. Subscriptions of the magazine are provided free of cost to IEEE Computer Society members. Computer covers all aspects of computer science. Since 2009, it has a digital edition too. The current editor in chief is Jeff Voas of NIST. Its impact factor was 1.94 for 2017, and 3.564 for 2018. The magazine is the recipient of the 2015 APE Award for Publication Excellence. Computer won the 2018 Folio: Eddie Award for its September 2017 issue, Blockchain Technology in Finance, in the category of AssociationNonprofit, AppDigital Edition. Computer also received Folio: Eddie Digital Award honorable mentions in 2019, 2017, and 2016.  References   External links  Official website DBLP bibliography partial from 1975 volume 8, complete from 1988 volume 21 IEEE Computer Society
Prime Computer, Inc. was a Natick, Massachusetts-based producer of minicomputers from 1972 until 1992. With the advent of PCs and the decline of the minicomputer industry, Prime was forced out of the market in the early 1990s, and by the end of 2010 the trademarks for both PRIME and PRIMOS no longer existed. The alternative spellings PR1ME and PR1MOS were used as brand names or logos by the company.  Founders  The company was started by seven founders, some of whom worked on the Multics project at MIT. Robert Baron Sidney Halligan James Campbell Joseph Cashen Robert Berkowitz William Poduska John Carter The company started with the motto Software First. Poduska left in 1981, to start Apollo Computer. His successor was 27-year IBM executive Joe M. Henson, although Prime's president, Kenneth G. Fisher, had briefly been the interim top executive.  Minicomputer products  The initial offerings by Prime were clones of Honeywell's DDP 316 and 516 minicomputers. Main competitors were Digital Equipment Corporation, Data General and...
Brain is the industry standard name for a computer virus that was released in its first form on 19 January 1986, and is considered to be the first computer virus for the IBM Personal Computer and compatibles.  Description  Brain affects the PC by replacing the boot sector of a floppy disk with a copy of the virus. The real boot sector is moved to another sector and marked as bad. Infected disks usually have five kilobytes of bad sectors. The disk label is usually changed to Brain, and the following text can be seen in infected boot sectors: Welcome to the Dungeon 1986 Amjads Ltd VIRUSSHOE RECORD V9.0 Dedicated to the dynamic memories of millions of viruses who are no longer with us today - Thanks GOODNESS!!! BEWARE OF THE er..VIRUS : this program is catching program follows after these ....!! There are many minor and major variations to that version of the text. The virus slows down the floppy disk drive and makes seven kilobytes of memory unavailable to DOS. Brain was written by Basit Farooq Alvi and Amjad Farooq Alvi, who at the time lived in Chah Miran, near Lahore Railway Station, in Lahore, Pakistan. The Alvi brothers told Time magazine they had...
NeT, Inc. later NeT Computer, Inc. and NeT Software, Inc. was an American technology company headquartered in Redwood City, California. It was founded in 1985 by Steve Jobs, the Apple Computer co-founder who had been ousted from Apple earlier that year. The company initially developed workstation computers for higher education and business markets before shifting its focus to software. NeT introduced the NeT Computer in 1988, followed by the NeTcube and NeTstation in 1990. Although its computers achieved limited commercial success, the company's NeTSTEP operating system and its object-oriented software development environment and graphical user interface proved highly influential. NeT later partnered with Sun Microsystems to create the OpenStep specification, which decoupled the NeTSTEP operating system's application layer to host it on third-party operating systems. In 1993, NeT withdrew from the hardware industry to concentrate on marketing OPENSTEP for Mach, its own OpenStep implementation, to other computer vendors. The company also developed WebObjects, one of the first enterprise web frameworks, and a prominent early example of dynamic web pages rather than static...
The Apple Computer 1 , often referred to as the Apple I, is an 8-bit personal computer designed by Steve Wozniak and introduced by the Apple Computer Company in 1976. It was the company's first product and laid the foundation for what would become one of the world's largest technology companies. The idea of founding the company and marketing the computer came from Wozniak's friend and Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. Unlike most contemporary hobbyist computers, which were sold as kits requiring assembly, the Apple-1 was delivered as a pre-assembled motherboard with built-in video display terminal circuitry. This allowed it to connect directly to a household television using a composite video cable, eliminating the need for an expensive external terminal. Users still had to supply a case, power supply, and keyboard. Powered by the MOS Technology 6502 microprocessor, it was among the earliest personal computers to offer these capabilities, alongside the Sol-20. After demonstrating a prototype at the Homebrew Computer Club, Jobs secured an order for 50 computers from the Byte Shop, enabling production of the Apple-1. It was discontinued...
Patni Computer Systems Limited was a provider of IT services and business solutions founded by Narendra Patni. It merged with IGATE Corporation in 2011 and operated under the name IGATE Patni until 2012. The company has employed over 18,000 people in 23 international offices across the Americas, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region, as well as offshore development centres in eight cities in India. Patni's clients included more than 360 Fortune 1000 companies. In 2009, Patni Computer Systems appointed Jeya Kumar as the new CEO following a two-year global search. After taking charge, Kumar traveled extensively and met with clients, leading the company through its Patni 2.0 phase with a vision for the company's future.  Acquisition by iGATE Corporation  On 10 January 2011, iGATE announced that it had reached a definitive agreement to buy shares of the major shareholders of Patni Computer Systems Limited. These shares comprise 63 of Patni's total outstanding shares.  Acquisitions and OEM agreements  April 2003: Acquired The Reference Inc., a company incorporated in Massachusetts, USA for a consideration of about US7.5 million, through its wholly owned US subsidiary, Patni Computer...
Computer Bild is a German fortnightly computer magazine published by Axel Springer SE. It is published in nine countries, and is one of Europe's best selling computer magazines.  History and profile  Computer Bild was first published in 1996. The editor is Axel Telzerow who has held his position since February 2012, and his predecessor Hans-Martin Burr was in office since October 2006. Previously, the editor since the formation of the magazine was the magazine's founder Harald Kuppek, who left the position in December 2006. In Germany Computer Bild is published on a fortnightly basis. The magazine has a Polish edition which is part of Axel Springer SE via its subsidiary Axel Springer Polska. It is adapted for each country in which it is published.  Circulation  Computer Bild had a circulation of 1,057,000 copies in 2001. Its Italian edition sold 36,082 copies in 2007. The circulation of the magazine was 686,527 copies in 2010 in Germany. Its circulation was 505,600 copies in Germany in 2012. During the second quarter of 2016 the magazine had a circulation of 236,964 copies in the country.  References   External links  Official website Russian website magazine Polish...
Nebulae is a petascale supercomputer located at the National Supercomputing Center in Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. Built from a Dawning TC3600 Blade system with Intel eon 5650 processors and Nvidia Tesla C2050 GPUs, it has a peak performance of 1.271 petaflops using the LINPACK benchmark suite. Nebulae was ranked the second most powerful computer in the world in the June 2010 list of the fastest supercomputers according to TOP500. Nebulae has a theoretical peak performance of 2.9843 petaflops. This computer is used for multiple applications requiring advanced processing capabilities. It is ranked 10th among the June 2012 list of top500.org.  See also  Computer science Computing Supercomputer centers in China TOP500  References   Further reading  National Supercomputing Center starts construction in Shenzhen, People's Daily, November 17, 2009 Fildes, Jonathan, China aims to become supercomputer superpower, BBC News, 31 May 2010
The history of video games began in the 1950s and 1960s as computer scientists began designing simple games and simulations on minicomputers and mainframes. Spacewar! was developed by Massachusetts Institute of Technology student hobbyists in 1962 as one of the first such games on a video display. The first consumer video game hardware was released in the early 1970s. The first home video game console was the Magnavox Odyssey, and the first arcade video games were Computer Space and Pong. After its home console conversions, numerous companies sprang up to capture Pong's success in both the arcade and the home by cloning the game, causing a series of boom and bust cycles due to oversaturation and lack of innovation. By the mid-1970s, low-cost programmable microprocessors replaced the discrete transistor-transistor logic circuitry of early hardware, and the first ROM cartridge-based home consoles arrived, including the Atari Video Computer System . Coupled with rapid growth in the golden age of arcade video games, including Space Invaders and Pac-Man, the home console market also flourished. The 1983 video game crash in the United States was characterized by a flood of too...
Computer code is a generic term for the instructions to be executed by a computer. It can refer to: Machine code - instructions native to a specific processor Bytecode - instructions for a theoretical processor, designed for efficient execution by a software interpreter Source code - human-readable instructions that will be converted to a byte code or a suitable machine code Pseudocode - human-readable instructions outlining the steps of an algorithm to other humans
The ORACLE, or Oak Ridge Automatic Computer and Logical Engine, was an early stored-program electronic digital computer built jointly by Argonne National Laboratory and Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the early 1950s. Based on the IAS architecture developed by John von Neumann at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, it was fabricated at Argonne under subcontract for use at Oak Ridge, where it was installed and operated until the early 1960s. Its name was chosen as an allusion to the oracles of Greek mythology.  Background  Following the establishment of a Mathematics and Computing Section at Oak Ridge in 1947 under the mathematical biophysicist Alston Scott Householder, the laboratory began surveying available computer designs for its nuclear-aircraft reactor calculations and other scientific work. Householder visited Howard Aiken's Harvard Mark I project, the ENIAC team at the Aberdeen Proving Ground, and several commercial manufacturers including General Electric, Raytheon, Reeves Instrument and the Institute for Advanced Study, before concluding that Oak Ridge should commission its own machine of the von Neumann type. In 1949 Argonne National Laboratory, under Norman...
Apricot Computers Ltd., originally Applied Computer Techniques Ltd. , was a British electronic company active from 1965 to 2005. The company had its greatest success during the 1980s as a manufacturer of personal computers for businesses, including the highly popular ACT Sirius 1, which for a time was the most popular 16-bit business computer in Europe. The company later released a number of MS-DOS-compatible computer systems, to varying degrees of commercial success. Apricot was an innovative computer hardware company with a research and development center in Birmingham capable of manufacturing nearly every component of a personal computer, except for the integrated circuits themselves. This included custom BIOS development, system-level programming, silk-screening of motherboards, metal fabrication for internal chassis, and radio-frequency testing of the completed systems. The company pioneered several technical innovations, including the first commercial shipment of an all-in-one system with a 3.5-inch floppy drive . In the early 1990s, they also manufactured one of the world's most secure x86-based PCs, sold exclusively to the UK government. While Apricot...
Tadpole Computer was a manufacturer of rugged, military specification UNI workstations, thin client laptops, and lightweight servers.  History  Tadpole was founded in 1994 and originally based in Cambridge, England, then for a time in Cupertino, California. In 1998, Tadpole acquired RDI Computer Corporation of Carlsbad, California, who produced the competing Britelite and Powerlite portable SPARC-based systems, for 6 million. Tadpole was later acquired by defense contractor General Dynamics, in April 2005. Production continued until March 2013 but since then, they no longer sell any systems and support for their products was provided by Flextronics. Flextronics discontinued Tadpole support around 2019. Vector Data, a Tadpole OEM, still provides legacy Tadpole systems and support. An anonymous US intelligence officer had stated to Reuters in 2013 that a decade earlier the US secretly created a company reselling laptops from Tadpole Computer to Asian governments. The reseller added secret software that allowed intelligence analysts to access the machines remotely.  Products  Tadpole laptops used a variety of architectures, such as SPARC, Alpha, PowerPC and x86. Although very...
A multimedia computer is a computer that is optimized for multimedia performance. Early home computers lacked the power and storage necessary for true multimedia. The games for these systems, along with the demo scene, were able to achieve high sophistication and technical polish using only simple, blocky graphics and digitally generated sound. The Amiga 1000 from Commodore International has been called the first multimedia computer. Its groundbreaking animation, graphics and sound technologies enabled multimedia content to flourish. Famous demos such as the Boing Ball and Juggler showed off the Amiga's abilities. Later the Atari ST series and Apple Macintosh II extended the concept the Atari integrated a MIDI port and was the first computer under US1000 to have 1 megabyte of RAM, which is a realistic minimum for multimedia content, and the Macintosh was the first computer able to display true photorealistic graphics as well as integrating a CD-ROM drive, whose high capacity was essential for delivering multimedia content in the pre-Internet era. While the Commodore machines had the hardware to present multimedia of the kinds listed above, they lacked a way to create it easily. One...
Computer Stew was an Internet video series about technology created by John Hargrave, founder of Zug.com, and Jay Stevens. Most of the characters in the show are ZDNet employees. The series premiered on ZDNet in fall 1999, and lasted for five seasons until spring 2001. The staff of Computer Stew used inexpensive off-the-shelf video tools and hardware to create the show, including a web cam, a computer, and Adobe Premiere software.  Computer Stew Staff  John Hargrave, host Jay Stevens, co-host, usually featured talking through a speakerphone Henry Harvey, head writer and creative consultant Al Natanagara, producer and artist Moses Blumenstiel, producer Marty Barrett, writer Mike Ward, head programmer Tim Elkins, assistant programmer Jim Morash, intern  Notes   External links  Computer Stew episodes on the Internet Archive
Jeffrey Adgate Dean is an American computer scientist and software engineer. He is best known for his work at Google, which he joined in 1999. He led Google AI from 2018 to 2023 and was Google's chief scientist from 2023 to 2026. Dean co-founded the AI research start-up Discovery Loop in 2026.  Early life and education  Jeff Dean was born to a family of a tropical disease researcher and a medical anthropologist, who moved the family frequently. However, from the fifth to tenth grade, Dean attended schools in the Twin Cities. Dean received a B.S., summa cum laude, from the University of Minnesota in computer science and economics in 1990. His undergraduate thesis was on neural networks in C programming, advised by Vipin Kumar. During freshman year, Dean met his future wife, Heidi Hopper, who graduated from the same university in 1990. He received a Ph.D. in computer science from the department that would become the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Washington in 1996, working under Craig Chambers on compilers and whole-program optimization techniques for object-oriented programming languages.  Career   Early... 
In computing, a virtual machine is the virtualization or emulation of a computer system. Virtual machines are based on computer architectures and provide the functionality of a physical computer. Their implementations may involve specialized hardware, software, or a combination of the two. Virtual machines differ and are organized by their function, shown here: System virtual machines also called full virtualization VMs, or SysVMs provide a substitute for a real machine. They provide the functionality needed to execute entire operating systems. A hypervisor uses native execution to share and manage hardware, allowing for multiple environments that are isolated from one another yet exist on the same physical machine. Modern hypervisors use hardware-assisted virtualization, with virtualization-specific hardware features on the host CPUs providing assistance to hypervisors. Process virtual machines are designed to execute computer programs in a platform-independent environment. Some virtual machine emulators, such as QEMU and video game console emulators, are designed to also emulate different system architectures, thus allowing execution of software...
In electronics and computer science, a reduced instruction set computer is a computer architecture designed to simplify the individual instructions given to the computer to accomplish tasks. Compared to the instructions given to a complex instruction set computer , a RISC computer might require more machine code in order to accomplish a task because the individual instructions perform simpler operations. The goal is to offset the need to process more instructions by increasing the speed of each instruction, in particular by implementing an instruction pipeline, which may be simpler to achieve given simpler instructions. The key operational concept of the RISC computer is that each instruction performs only one function e.g., copy a value from memory to a register. The RISC computer usually has many high-speed, general-purpose registers with a load-store architecture in which the instructions that perform arithmetic and tests operate only on the registers, and the instructions that access data in the main memory of the computer only load data from memory into registers or store data from registers into memory. The design of the CPU allows...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 768 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Bichak is a stuffed baked or fried pastry that comes in different forms appetizer or meal similar to a turnover, served in Central Asia cuisines including Uzbek cuisine, Tajik cuisine, Afghan cuisine, and Middle Eastern cuisine, most notably in Moroccan cuisine. It is often served during tea or coffee hour. Bichak can be stuffed with pumpkin, veggies, and jam for a sweet taste, or meat and cheese for a savory addition to lunch. Bichak is also popular because it can be prepared in large quantities. They are traditional for Rosh Hashanah and Sukkot. For kosher dairy meals, bichak stuffed with pumpkin or cheese are served with yogurt or sour cream.  See also  List of Middle Eastern dishes Tajik cuisine Uzbek cuisine Jewish cuisine Israeli cuisine North African cuisine Middle Eastern cuisine Samosa List of African dishes List of hors d'oeuvre List of stuffed dishes  References 
Willobie His Avisa is a narrative poem that was published as a pamphlet in London after being entered in the Stationers' Register on 3 September 1594. It purports to have been written by a person called Henry Willobie with an introduction by Hadrian Dorrell. It is possible that these are pseudonyms, though a real Henry Willobie certainly existed. The central story tells of Avisa, who is at first a maid and then an innkeeper's wife. She is besieged by a series of would-be seducers, one after the other. She rebuffs each of them and remains a chaste and a constant wife. It is told in seventy-two cantos, the cantos being made up of six-line stanzas of iambic tetrameters, which rhyme ababcc. The pedestrian quality of the poem has left critics unimpressed, and it was censured by the authorities in 1599. The work is enigmatic regarding the actual identities of its characters and its author, but its popularity suggests that Tudor audiences knew what was being said. It was republished six times between 1594 and 1635. Willobie His Avisa is of particular interest to Shakespearean studies, because it contains literature's first extant, independent mention of William Shakespeare. This occurs...
Marie-Sophie Hindermann is a German former artistic gymnast.  Career  Hindermann won four medals at the 2006 European Women's Artistic Gymnastics Championships in the junior category: a silver on vault and bronzes in team, all-around, and uneven bars. At the 2007 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships, she finished 14th in the all-around and 5th on uneven bars. At the 2008 European Women's Artistic Gymnastics Championships, Hindermann helped the German team finish 7th. She competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in all artistic gymnastics events except for vault. In qualifications, she helped the German team finish in 12th place. Her best individual result was 55th place in the all-around. At 5 feet 7 inches tall in 2008, Hindermann is one of the tallest female gymnasts to ever compete in the Olympic Games. Being unusually tall for a female gymnast, she required adjustments of the uneven bars during her career that caused delays at international competitions. She retired from competitive gymnastics in December 2012.  References   External links  HINDERMANN Marie Sophie Germany. lx2.sportcentric.com
Cryoturris daidalea is an extinct species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Mangeliidae.  Description  The length of the shell attains 6 mm, its diameter 2.4 mm. The shell is small and slender. The 3 whorls of the highly polished protoconch have a distinct character. They have a costate sculpture with the axial sculpture developed only on the last half whorl. The last half whorl is carinate. The elevated spire is turreted with moderate inflated whorls that are constricted at the suture. The shell is spirally sculptured. The spirals are sharp and acutely granose and tend to alternate in size. The axial postnuclear sculpture originates near the end of the first half of the final whorl of the protoconch. The rather narrow axials are more or less obtuse, numbering 9 or 10 on the penultimate whorl. The somewhat oblique and oblanceolate aperture has about the same length as the maximum diameter of the shell. The outer lip is feebly arcuate.  Distribution  This extinct marine species has been found in strata of Alum Bluff Group of Florida, United States  References 
Fred Thomas is an American retired football coach. He was the seventh and final head coach for the Malone Pioneers in Canton, Ohio from 2015 to 2018. After the announcement of the conclusion of the football program at Malone, Thomas became an assistant football coach for the Mount Union Purple Raiders in Alliance, Ohio beginning in the 2019 season. He had previously served as an assistant coach at Malone for the 2015 season.  Coaching history   Assistant coaching and high school  Thomas was the defensive coordinator at Walsh University for 16 seasons and worked at Youngstown State from 1978 to 1986. He also was a high school head coach at Girard, Alliance, and GlenOak and an voluntary assistant at Sandy Valley, all in Ohio. He became an assistant coach at Malone for the 2015 season under Eric Hehman.  Malone University Pioneers  When Hehman resigned at Malone University, it took the university just over 24 hours to offer the new head coach position to Thomas, something that Malone athletic director Charlie Grimes said was an easy move--a decision they said was based in confidence, excitement, respect, and heart. Thomas took over the program after its first winless year in...
Mystical Lady is an album by organist Shirley Scott recorded in 1971 and released on the Cadet label.  Reception  The Allmusic site awarded the album 3 stars.  Track listing  Hall of Jazz - 6:17 Let It Be - 7:13 Love Dreams - 5:00 Proud Mary - 6:31 Mystical Lady - 8:32 Your Song - 5:52  Personnel  Shirley Scott - organ, vocals George Patterson - alto saxophone, arranger Pee Wee Ellis , Danny Turner - tenor saxophone George Freeman , Wally Richardson - guitar Ron Carter , Richard Davis - bass Bobby Durham , Freddie Waits - drums  References 
Fark Heliport is a public use heliport located in Fark, 2 nautical miles east-southeast of Tirana, Albania. The estimated terrain elevation above sea level is 207 metres.  See also  List of airports in Albania  References   External links  Airport record for Tiran Heliport Archived 22 May 2014 at the Wayback Machine at Landings.com.
Nathaniel Rich is an American novelist and essayist. Rich is the author of several books, both fiction and non-fiction. He was an editor for The Paris Review, and has contributed articles and essays to several major magazines, including The Atlantic, Harper's Magazine, and The New York Review of Books.  Early life  Rich is the son of Frank Rich, New York Magazine writer and former New York Times columnist, and Gail Winston, executive editor at HarperCollins. His youngest brother is writer Simon Rich. Rich attended Dalton School and is an alumnus of Yale University, where he studied literature. After graduating, he worked on the editorial staff of The New York Review of Books.  Career  Rich moved to San Francisco to write San Francisco Noir, exploring how the city has been portrayed in film noir. The San Francisco Chronicle ranked it as one of the best books of 2005. That year he was hired as an editor by The Paris Review. Since then he has written and published both non-fiction and fiction books. In 2008, he published his debut novel The Mayor's Tongue, described by Carolyn See in The Washington Post as a playful, highly intellectual novel about serious...
Pietrascritta written stone, also known as funerary monument of Muttini is a Roman funerary monument situated near the Turanese provincial road outside of the village of Paganico Sabino. Constructed for the Muttini family sometime during the late 1st century BCE, the structure has acted as an important local landmark within the Paganico Sabino area.  Location and setting  The monument is located approximately 3.3 kilometres to the right of the main road in Paganico Sabino. It has a prominent position on a rocky outcrop overlooking the Turano Valley. Researchers have interpreted the monument's notable placement as deliberate for maximum visibility throughout the valley. Additionally the inscription on the South-Western face of the monument overlooks the Turano River, making it clearly visible to anyone passing through the valley.  Construction  It is thought that the monument is a large worked block of local limestone. Evidence of careful stone cutting is visible on several sides of the monument despite some weathering and damage occurring over time. The worked surfaces indicate the intentional shaping of the rock rather than it being left in its natural state. The surviving...
Sagarika is an Indian singer and actress. She sings in Hindi, Assamese and Bengali.  Hindi film songs   Hindi non-film songs   Hindi television songs   Assamese film songs   Assamese non-film songs   Bengali film songs   Bengali non-film songs   References 
In aviation and underwater diving, alternobaric vertigo is dizziness resulting from unequal pressures being exerted between the inner ears, commonly due to one Eustachian tube being less patent than the other.  Causes  This might have occurred due to barotrauma of descent, andor the effects of nasal decongestants. It is due to unequal increase in middle ear pressures on ascent, is usually mild, and most often cleared by further ascent. When the pressures in both ears reach ambient levels, the stimulus for the dizziness stops. Although most often mild, the vertigo can persist until the diver reaches the surface continuing the unequal pressures, which can damage the inner ear or ear drum. Alternobaric vertigo is most pronounced when the diver is in the vertical position the spinning is towards the ear with the higher pressure and tends to develop when the pressures differ by 60 cm of water or more. Ear clearing may be a remedy. A similar vertigo can also occur as a result of unequal heating stimulation of one inner ear labyrinth over the other due to diving in a prone position in cold water - the undermost ear being stimulated.  Diagnosis  In terms of diagnosis for alternobaric...
Education in North Carolina covers public and private education at all levels since the colonial era.  History  The history of education in North Carolina reflects the state's development from its rural, agrarian beginnings to its position in the modern era as a major industrial and technological state. Early Education: In the colonial period, education was primarily provided by private tutors or religious institutions. The first public school in North Carolina was established in New Bern in 1749. Rise of Public Education: The 19th century saw the rise of public education in North Carolina, with the state's first public school system established in 1839. However, public education was not available to all children, particularly those in the mountains, the rural areas and African American children Education Reform: In the early 20th century, North Carolina underwent a period of education reform, with Governor Charles B. Aycock leading efforts to improve teacher training, school facilities, and curriculum. This period also saw the establishment of the North Carolina Community College System Integration and Desegregation: The Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s brought about...
Chandraseniya Kayastha Prabhu or historically and commonly known as Chandraseniya Prabhu or just Prabhu is a caste mainly found in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Historically, they made equally good warriors, statesmen as well as writers. They held the posts such as Deshpande and Gadkari according to the historian, B.R. Sunthankar, produced prominent warriors in Maharashtrian history. Traditionally, in Maharashtra, the caste structure was headed by the Deshasthas, Chitpawans, Karhade, Saraswats and the CKPs. Other than the Brahmins, the Prabhus were the communities advanced in education. The CKPs have the upanayana and have been granted the rights to study the Vedas and perform Vedic rituals along with the Brahmins. The CKP performed three Vedic karmas or duties which in Sanskrit are called: Adhyayan- studying of the Vedas, yajna- ritual done in front of a sacred fire, often with mantras and dna - alms or charity. Ritually ranked high , the caste may be considered socially proximate to the Brahmin community. They have traditionally been an elite and literate but a numerically small community. Rosenthal,...
Solo is a 2011 Telugu-language romantic family drama film written and directed by Parasuram. The film features Nara Rohit and Nisha Agarwal in the lead roles. The film featured music by Mani Sharma. It was remade in Oriya as Haata Dhari Chaaluthaa with Anubhav Mohanty and Varsha Priyadarshini. Solo was successful at the box office.  Cast   Soundtrack  The music for the movie was composed by Mani Sharma. The audio was released in Hyderabad on 22 October 2011 by Chandrababu Naidu and was released on Aditya Music.  Release   Reception  Jeevi of Idlebrain.com rated the film 35 and wrote that On a whole, Solo is a genuine attempt by the director and makes a decent watch if you ignore the lag in second half.  Satellite rights  The satellite rights of the film were acquired by MAA TV for  8.75 crore. The film opened to mixed reviews and became an Super Hit at box-office.  Other versions  The film was dubbed and released in Tamil during July 2014 as En Kathalukku Naane Villain.  References   External links  Solo at IMDb
Michael Waxman was an American director and producer of film and television. He was best known for his collaborations with film director Michael Mann, as well as for directing episodes of Friday Night Lights, Trauma, The Event and Prime Suspect.  Life and career  Waxman was raised in Brooklyn, New York and is a graduate of Brooklyn College. In film, he worked as an assistant director for every film directed by Michael Mann, dating back to Manhunter . His other film credits as an assistant director include When Harry Met Sally... , Drop Dead Fred , Highway to Hell , Rudy , Monkey Trouble and producing and assistant directing the films A Low Down Dirty Shame . Celtic Pride and Metro . In 2006, Waxman became an assistant director on the television series Friday Nights Lights. He made the head directorial debut of his career on that series in 2008 going on to direct eleven episodes including the series finale. In 2011, he was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for his work on the series as a producer. His other television directing credits include Trauma, Parenthood, Breakout Kings, The Event, Prime Suspect, Awake, Grimm, Once...
The term military apparatus refers to a policy of appointing officers of the Brazilian Armed Forces during the government of Joo Goulart , consisting of favoring, in promotions and nominations to important commands, military officers considered reliable. It is considered the work of the head of the President's Military Cabinet, Argemiro de Assis Brasil, who, however, later denied its existence. The filling of the high commands with loyal officers was supposed to assure the president's mandate and was considered relevant both within the government and the opposition. However, it did not prevent the deposition of Goulart in the 1964 coup d'tat, which was joined by members of the apparatus, some of whom had participated in the preceding conspiracy.  Goulart's military politics  The governing authorities use various strategies to mitigate the risk posed by the military to their power. In Brazil, where the presence of officers willing to overthrow the government was continuous, every president needed to set up his military apparatus to secure his mandate. Thus, appointments and promotions have always had a political character, and the weak Executive turned to the military...
Jacarezinho is a municipality in the state of Paran in Brazil, with around 39,000 inhabitants. It is situated at 23938S 495810W near the Jacar River and it is a major center for the region. Its economy is made up of 34 industries, 55 services , 11 agriculture . The city is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Jacarezinho.  Climate   References 
Malin Rundgren is a Swedish swimmer. She competed in the women's 4  100 metre freestyle relay at the 1984 Summer Olympics.  References   External links  Malin Rundgren at World Aquatics Malin Rundgren at the Swedish Olympic Committee Malin Rundgren at Olympedia Malin Rundgren at InterSportStats
Battle of Ravenna may refer to: Battle of Ravenna , in which Aetius and Bonifatius waged a civil war in the Western Roman Empire Battle of Ravenna , between Orestes and Julius Nepos Battle of Ravenna , in which Odoacer captured Ravenna and brought the Western Roman Empire to an end Battle of Ravenna , between the Byzantine Empire and the Italians Battle of Ravenna , between the French and Spanish-Papal during the War of the League of Cambrai  See also  Siege of Ravenna , in which Theoderic the Great besieged Odoacer Siege of Ravenna , in which the Eastern Roman Empire besieged Vitiges
The History of Civilization is a boxed set of science fiction novels by author Edward E. Smith, Ph.D. It contains the six novels of Smith's Lensman series. The set was published in 1961 by Fantasy Press in an edition of 75 copies. Each volume was printed from the original Fantasy Press plates, but with a new title page giving the name of the set. They were bound in red half-leather, numbered and signed by Smith.  Contents  Volume 1 Triplanetary Volume 2 First Lensman Volume 3 Galactic Patrol Volume 4 Gray Lensman Volume 5 Second Stage Lensmen Volume 6 Children of the Lens  Reprints  Old Earth Books reprinted the set in 1998 in a limited edition of 100 copies, bound in leather with a slipcase.  References  Chalker, Jack L. Mark Owings . The Science-Fantasy Publishers: A Bibliographic History, 1923-1998. Westminster, MD and Baltimore: Mirage Press, Ltd. pp. 241, 486. Clute, John Peter Nicholls . The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction. New York: St. Martin's Griffin. p. 1123. ISBN 0-312-13486-.
Towns and cities have a long history, although opinions vary on which ancient settlements are truly cities. Historically, the benefits of dense, permanent settlement were numerous, but required prohibitive amounts of food and labor to maintain. Ancient cities allowed for the pooling of resources, exchange of ideas, large marketplaces, and even some shared amenities such as drinking water, sewerage, law enforcement, and roads. The first cities formed and grew once these benefits of proximity between people exceeded the cost of work required to maintain a settlement. Various technologies such as bricks, pottery, and animal taming played a large role in the costs and benefits of maintaining the earliest forms of cities. Cities were first made possible by advances in technology.  Origins  There is not enough evidence to assert with certainty what conditions gave rise to the first cities. Smaller human settlements pre-date cities by many thousands of years. Before permanent settlement in cities, there were also large temporary settlements used for religious purposes or as a stopping place for nomadic people. Anthropologists speculate on what they consider suitable...
Norman D. Daly , was an American artist who created the fictional Civilization of Llhuros along with hundreds of its artifacts, texts, and soundscapes. His work on The Civilization of Llhuros starting in the mid-1960s makes him the pioneering practitioner of an art genre now known as fictive archaeology.  Family and education  Daly was born and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the youngest of seven children of Rose Daly and James A. Daly. His elementary and secondary education combined elements of the Catholic and the secular . He showed an early aptitude for art and was a night school art student at the Carnegie Institute of Technology before going on to major in art at the University of Colorado . After a fellowship year in Paris , he received his MA in art history from Ohio State University . His first teaching position was at Oberlin College . Daly also undertook post-graduate work in art history at The Institute of Fine Arts, New York University while teaching at Douglass College. Daly married Helen O. Gebbie in 1942, and they had two sons, David and Nicholas. 2...
The history of Crete goes back to the 7th millennium BC, preceding the ancient Minoan civilization by more than four millennia. The Minoan civilization was the first civilization in Europe. During the Iron Age, Crete developed an Ancient Greece-influenced organization of city-states, then successively became part of the Roman Empire, the Byzantine Empire, the Venetian Republic, the Ottoman Empire, an autonomous state, and the modern state of Greece.  Prehistoric Crete  Excavations in South Crete in 2008-2009 revealed stone tools at least 130,000 years old, including bifacial ones of Acheulean type. This was a sensational discovery, as the previously accepted earliest sea crossing in the Mediterranean was thought to occur around 12,000 BC. This suggests that the island may have been visited by archaic humans during the Middle Pleistocene. During the Late Pleistocene, the island was ecologically isolated, and only inhabited by a few mammal species, including deer belonging to the endemic genus Candiacervus, a lineage of mice , a dwarf elephant , the Cretan otter cretensis, and the Cretan shrew Crocidura...
2K is an American video game publisher based in Novato, California. The company was founded as a subsidiary of Take-Two Interactive in January 2005 through the 2K Games and 2K Sports sub-labels. The nascent label incorporated several development studios owned by Take-Two, including Visual Concepts and Kush Games, which had been acquired the day before. Originally based in New York City, 2K moved to Novato in 2007. A third label, 2K Play, was added in September 2007. 2K is governed by David Ismailer as president and Phil Dixon as chief operating officer. It operates a motion capture studio in Petaluma, California.  History  On January 24, 2005, Take-Two Interactive acquired Visual Concepts, developer of NBA 2K, NHL 2K, and MLB 2K games that were marketed under the Sega Sports brand. Take-Two paid Sega US24 million for Visual Concepts, its Kush Games subsidiary and the 2K series' intellectual property. On January 25, 2005, Take-Two established the 2K Publishing label including its 2K Games and 2K Sports sub-labels. The company took over some games previously to be published by Take-Two's Global Star Software label. In January 2006, some of 2K's New York City offices were damaged...
Freeciv is a single- and multiplayer turn-based strategy game for workstations and personal computers inspired by the proprietary Sid Meier's Civilization series. It is available for most desktop computer operating systems and available in an online browser version. Released under the GNU GPL-2.0-or-later, Freeciv is free and open-source software. The game's default settings are closest to Civilization II, in both gameplay and graphics, including the units and the isometric grid. However, with a lot of multiplayer games being played in longturn communities, rulesets and additional variants have evolved away from the original ruleset. Freeciv is playable online on various public and private servers. Players take the role of tribal leaders in 4000 B.C. who must guide their peoples through the centuries. Over time, new technologies are discovered, which allow the construction of new city buildings and the deployment of new units. Players can wage war on one another or form diplomatic relationships. The game ends when one civilization has eradicated all others or accomplished the goal of space colonization, or at a given deadline. If more than one civilization remains at the deadline, the...
Civilization and Barbarism: Life of Juan Facundo Quiroga original Spanish title in Bello orthography: Civilizacin i Barbarie: Vida de Juan Facundo Qiroga, later published and better known as Facundo, is a book written in 1845 by Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, a writer and journalist who became the seventh president of Argentina. It is a cornerstone of Latin American literature: a work of creative non-fiction that helped to define the parameters for thinking about the region's development, modernization, power, and culture. Subtitled Civilization and Barbarism, Facundo contrasts civilization and barbarism as seen in early 19th-century Argentina. Literary critic Roberto Gonzlez Echevarra calls the work the most important book written by a Latin American in any discipline or genre. Facundo describes the life of Juan Facundo Quiroga, a caudillo who had terrorized provincial Argentina in the 1820s and 1830s. Kathleen Ross, one of Facundo's English translators, points out that the author also published Facundo to denounce the tyranny of the Argentine dictator Juan Manuel de Rosas. Juan Manuel de Rosas ruled Argentina from 1829 to 1832 and again from 1835 to 1852 it was because of...
Kosovo: A Moment in Civilization Serbian: :   , romanized: Kosovo: Momenat u civilizaciji is a 2017 Serbian documentary film about Serbia's UNESCO heritage in Kosovo. Directed and produced by Serbian Canadian filmmaker Boris Malagurski, the film was released on September 15, 2017 in Paris, France. The film is Malagurski's second documentary film made about Kosovo, the first was 2009 film Kosovo: Can You Imagine?  Synopsis  The film starts off with the host, Stefan Popovi, presenting the Graanica Monastery, its history and significance for not only Serbs who built it, but civilization as a whole. Popovi talks about his childhood and how he used to often visit the monastery. He then moves on to the Our Lady of Ljevi Serbian Orthodox Church in Prizren, built in the 14th century, converted into a mosque during the Ottoman Empire and then back into a church in the early 20th century. Popovi talks about the damaged frescoes in the church and how the church was burned during the 2004 unrest in Kosovo. The Patriarchal Monastery of Pe is presented next, with Popovi explaining the significance of it to Orthodox Serbs throughout history, but also the struggles...
Hyperdiffusionism is a pseudoarchaeological hypothesis that postulates that certain historical technologies or ideas were developed by a single people or civilization and then spread to other cultures. Thus, all great civilizations that engage in what appear to be similar cultural practices, such as the construction of pyramids, derived them from a single common progenitor. According to proponents of hyperdiffusion, examples of hyperdiffusion can be found in religious practices, cultural technologies, megalithic monuments, and lost ancient civilizations. The idea of hyperdiffusionism differs from trans-cultural diffusion in several ways. One is the fact that hyperdiffusionism is usually not testable due to its pseudo-scientific nature. Also, unlike trans-cultural diffusion, hyperdiffusionism does not use trading and cultural networks to explain the expansion of a society within a single culture instead, hyperdiffusionists claim that all major cultural innovations and societies derive from one ancient civilization. One common hyperdiffusionist hypothesis states that the similarities among disparate civilizations were inherited from the civilization of a lost continent...
Odin was an American glam metal band from Los Angeles, formed in 1982. The band is perhaps best known for the appearance in the film The Decline of Western Civilization Part II: The Metal Years. Odin guitarist Jeff Duncan went on to play in the Los Angeles metal band Armored Saint after Odin broke up. Odin lead singer Randy O went on to become a teamster trucker for the film industry. On April 13, 2025, the band briefly reunited at the Rainbow Bar and Grill for the restaurant's 53rd anniversary party.  Albums  All studio albums listed, unless otherwise noted.  References   External links  Odin on Facebook Odin at AllMusic
The Lower Paleolithic era on the Korean Peninsula and in Manchuria began roughly half a million years ago. The earliest known Korean pottery dates to around 8000 BC and the Neolithic period began thereafter, followed by the Bronze Age by 2000 BC, and the Iron Age around 700 BC. The Paleolithic people are likely not the direct ancestors of the present Korean people, but their direct ancestors are thought to be the Neolithic People of about 2000 BC. According to the mythic account recounted in the Samguk yusa , the Gojoseon kingdom was founded in northern Korea and southern Manchuria in 2333 BC. The first written historical record on Gojoseon can be found from the text Guanzi. The Jin state was formed in southern Korea by the 3rd century BC. In the late 2nd century BC, Gojoseon eventually fell to the Han dynasty of China, which led to succeeding warring states, the Proto-Three Kingdoms period. From the 1st century BC, Goguryeo, Baekje, and Silla grew to control the peninsula and Manchuria as the Three Kingdoms of Korea , until unification by Silla in 676. In 698, Dae Jo-young established Balhae in the old territories of Goguryeo, which led to the Northern and Southern...
The Liangzhu culture or civilization was the last Chinese Neolithic jade culture in the Yangtze River Delta. The culture was highly stratified, as jade, silk, ivory and lacquer artifacts were found exclusively in elite burials, while pottery was more commonly found in the burial plots of poorer individuals. This division of class indicates that the Liangzhu period was an early state, symbolized by the clear distinction drawn between social classes in funeral structures. A pan-regional urban center had emerged at the Liangzhu site in northwestern Hangzhou, Zhejiang, and elite groups from this site presided over the local centers. The Liangzhu culture was extremely influential and its sphere of influence reached as far north as Shanxi and as far south as Guangdong. The primary Liangzhu site was perhaps among the oldest Neolithic sites in East Asia that would be considered a state society. The type site at Liangzhu was discovered in Yuhang County, Zhejiang and initially excavated by Shi ingeng in 1936. On 6 July 2019, the archaeological ruins of Liangzhu City were inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.  Disappearance  The Liangzhu culture flourished around 2500...
The Castellieri culture developed in Istria during the Early and Middle Bronze Age, and later expanded into Friuli, Dalmatia and the neighbouring areas. It lasted for more than a millennium, from the 18th century BC until the Roman conquest in the 3rd century BC. It takes its name from the fortified settlements, Castellieri, which characterized the culture. The term was coined by Carlo Marchesetti , Italian botanist, archaeologist and physician. The ethnicity of the Castellieri civilization is uncertain. The first Castellieri were built along the Istrian coast and show a similar monumental architecture with Cyclopean masonry which can also be found in the Mycenaean civilization. The Monkodonja hillfort shows that the earlierst Castellieri were built already in the 19th century BC. The Castellieri were fortified settlements, usually located on hills or mountains or, more rarely , in plains. They were constituted by one or more concentric series of walls, of rounded or elliptical shape in Istria and Venezia Giulia, or quadrangular in Friuli, within which was the inhabited area. Some hundred Castellieri have been discovered in Istria, Friuli and Venezia Giulia...
The Living God: Medicine and The Ancient Meetei Civilization is a 2015 English language short documentary film written and directed by Prakas Aheibam. It is based on the medicine and the ancient Meitei civilization . This documentary film was produced by a resourceless staff who were deeply conscious and appreciative of ancient forgotten human values for the revival. It initiates the information about unknown things and unsuspected resources of ancient civilizations and the hugely deep and materialistic modern times casting their shadow upon them. It shows the undiscovered knowledge as well as the unending ways and resources of the universe known to man only through deeply spiritual and considering great forces.  Background  Meetei Civilization , in the present day Northeast India bordering Myanmar , is a civilization still unknown to most of the world. Meitei script, its ancient script is the representation of the well developed nature of its civilization. The form, structure and phonology of the ancient Meitei writing system show the understanding of human physiology. The ancient Puyas record their ancient knowledge on many subjects...
Apocalypse Bringer Mynoghra: World Conquest Starts with the Civilization of Ruin Japanese: , Hepburn: Isekai Mokushiroku Mainogra: Hametsu no Bunmei de Hajimeru Sekai Seifuku is a Japanese light novel series written by Fehu Kazuno and illustrated by Jun. It began serialization as a web novel published on the user-generated novel publishing website Shsetsuka ni Nar in November 2017. It was later acquired by Micro Magazine who began publishing it under their GC Novels light novel imprint in November 2019. A manga adaptation illustrated by Yasaiko Midorihana began serialization on Kadokawa's ComicWalker manga website in March 2020. An anime television series adaptation produced by Maho Film premiered from July to September 2025.  Premise  After dying young from illness, Takuto Ira finds himself reborn in Eternal Nations, his favorite online game, as the ruler of Mynoghra along with his demonic retainer Atou. Neither of them are sure what happened, but decided to found a settlement in the forest to live in peace. Pretty quickly, refugees of different races begin seeking asylum under his protection due to the racism of the human countries.  Characters... 
The Eastern world, also known as the East or historically the Orient, is an umbrella term for various cultures or social structures, nations and philosophical systems, which vary depending on the context. It most often includes Asia, the Mediterranean region and the Arab world, specifically in historical contexts, and in modern times in the context of Orientalism. The Eastern world is often seen as a counterpart to the Western world. The various regions included in the term are varied, hard to generalize, and do not have a single shared common heritage. Although the various parts of the Eastern world share many common threads, most notably being in the Global South, they have never historically defined themselves collectively. The term originally had a literal geographic meaning, referring to the eastern part of the Old World, contrasting the cultures and civilizations of Asia with those of Western Europe . Conceptually, the boundary between east and west is more cultural and historical, rather than geographical, as a result of which Australia and New Zealand, which were founded as British settler colonies, are typically grouped with the Western...
2K is an American video game publisher based in Novato, California. The company was founded under Take-Two Interactive in January 2005 through the 2K Games and 2K Sports labels, following Take-Two Interactive's acquisition of Visual Concepts that same month. A third label, 2K Play, was added in September 2007. Notable franchises include BioShock, Borderlands, Carnival Games, Mafia, NBA 2K, Sid Meier's Civilization, WWE 2K, and COM.  Games published   Expansion packs   Notes   Games re-released   References 
The dark forest hypothesis is the idea that extraterrestrial civilizations may exist in abundance across the universe, but remain silent and hidden out of fear that revealing themselves would lead to destruction by a more technologically advanced and hostile civilization. It is one of several proposed explanations of the Fermi paradox, which contrasts the apparently high probability of extraterrestrial life with the lack of evidence for it. The hypothesis derives its name from Liu Cixin's 2008 novel The Dark Forest although similar concepts predate the work.  Relation to the Fermi paradox  There is currently no known reliable or reproducible evidence that extraterrestrial life forms have visited or attempted to contact Earth. Despite systematic searches, no transmission and no firm evidence of intelligent extraterrestrial life has been detected. This runs counter to the general observations that: The universe is filled with a very large number of planets, some of which might possess conditions hospitable for life Terrestrial life is observed to expand until it fills all niches suited to it. These contradictory facts form the basis for the Fermi paradox.  Concept  The dark...
Here Comes Civilization is a collection of 27 science fiction stories written by William Tenn, the second of two volumes presenting Tenn's complete body of science fiction writings. It features an introduction by Robert Silverberg and an afterword by George Zebrowski. Tenn provides afterwords to each story, describing how they came to be written.  Contents  Here Comes Civilization, Bernie the Faust novelette, originally published in Playboy in November 1963 Betelgeuse Bridge short story, originally published in Galaxy, April 1951 Will You Walk a Little Faster short story, originally published in Marvel Science Fiction, November 1951 The House Dutiful short story, originally published in Astounding SF, April 1948 There Were People on Bikini, There Were People on Attu short story, originally published in The Best of Omni Science Fiction, No.5, 1983 She Only Goes Out at Night... short story, originally published in Fantastic Universe, October 1956 Mistress Sary short story, originally published in Weird Tales, May 1947 The Malted Milk Monster novelette, originally published in Galaxy, August 1959 The Human Angle short...
Sino-Babylonianism is the theory that in the third millennium B.C., the civilization which existed in the Babylonian region provided the essential elements of material civilization and language to what is now China. Albert Terrien de Lacouperie was the first theorist to hypothesize that a massive migration by Babylonians brought the basic elements of early civilization to China, but the original form of this theory was largely discredited. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, scholars have used newly excavated archeological evidence to argue that some particular elements of ancient Chinese civilization were carried from western or central Asia into China and that there are linguistic ties between the two sides of the Asian continent.  Lacouperie's theory  The French Sinologist Albert Terrien de Lacouperie presented extensive and detailed arguments in The Western Origin of the Early Chinese Civilization, from 2300 B.C. to 200 A.D. that Chinese civilization had been founded by Babylonian immigrants. He wrote: Everything in Chinese antiquity and traditions points to a western origin. No Sinologist who has studied...
Layla AbdelRahim is a comparatist anthropologist and anarchoprimitivist author, whose works on narratives of civilization and wilderness have contributed to the fields of anthropology, literary and cultural studies, comparative literature, philosophy, animal studies, ecophilosophy, sociology, anarcho-primitivist thought, anarchism, epistemology, and critique of civilization, technology, and education. She attributes the collapse in the diversity of bio-systems and environmental degradation to monoculturalism and the civilised ontology that explains existence in terms of anthropocentric utilitarian functions. Her books Children's Literature, Domestication, and Social Foundation: Narratives of Civilization and Wilderness and Wild Children - Domesticated Dreams: Civilization and the Birth of Education make a contribution to children's literary theory and a critique of education as rooted in the civilised need for the domestication of children.  Education  AbdelRahim received her A.B. from Bryn Mawr College and, upon graduation in 1993, received the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship to pursue an anthropological project in Europe. She did graduate work in 1993...
Afterworld is an upcoming grand strategy game developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive. In the game, the player must guide a tribe rebuilding civilization in post-apocalyptic North America.  Gameplay  The game is set in a post-apocalyptic North America. At the beginning of the game, players can select an origin story for their faction. Gameplay involves rebuilding civilization as one of several factions of apocalypse survivors, starting from building out a home for a tribe and scaling to larger, continent-scale conflict. As players progress, they will be able to expand, recover lost technology, and decide how to deal with rival factions and warlords from before the apocalypse. Throughout the game, players must make decisions that will influence the course of the campaign. The game also supports both cooperative and competitive multiplayer modes at launch.  Development  The post-apocalyptic setting represents a departure from Paradox's historical grand strategy games, and is the studio's first original setting in a decade. It was announced at Gamescom on August 25th, 2026, with an as yet unannounced release date. Prior to the announcement,...
Geoff Knorr is an American composer, orchestrator, and sound designer. He has worked on video game titles such as Civilization VII, Civilization VI, Civilization: Beyond Earth, Civilization V, Ara: History Untold, and Ashes of the Singularity. Knorr was born in Framingham, Massachusetts and grew up in Marietta, Georgia. He took piano and cello lessons at a young age and he composed his first piece of music in eighth grade. He studied composition with Christopher Theofanidis and Michael Hersch and recording arts and sciences at the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. Knorr first came to the attention of the Firaxis sound team when he did score preparation for the choir recording for Civilization IV: Beyond the Sword. He has since collaborated as a composer, orchestrator, and sound designer with Firaxis Games, Oxide Games, and Stardock. Knorr's symphonic arrangements from Civilization V and VI are regularly performed by orchestras around the world as part of the touring Game ON! symphonic game music concerts, conducted by Andy Brick.  Works   Awards and nominations  ASCAP Morton Gould Young Composer Award, 2004 NACUSA...
Christopher Chiyan Tin is an American composer and conductor. His work is primarily orchestral and choral, often with a world music influence. He is a two-time Grammy Award winner, and has won various awards for his work in video game soundtracks and studio albums. Tin is best known for his work on title themes for the Civilization video game series, specifically the main theme Baba Yetu from the video game Civilization IV, which, at the 53rd Annual Grammy Awards in 2011, became the first piece of video game music to win a Grammy Award. This Grammy win has been considered a significant milestone for the critical acceptance of music from video games, and following this win the Recording Academy retitled their visual media categories to become more inclusive of video game soundtracks, before eventually creating a dedicated Grammy Award for Best Score Soundtrack for Video Games and Other Interactive Media in 2022.  Early life and education  Tin was born May 21, 1976 in Palo Alto, California, to immigrant parents from Hong Kong. He attended Stanford University, and had a brief period as an exchange student at the University of Oxford. He double majored in music...
Leonard Jay Greenspoon was an American scholar of biblical studies whose research included the Septuagint, Bible translation, and Jewish civilization. He was for many years the Philip M. and Ethel Klutznick Chair in Jewish Civilization at Creighton University and a longtime contributor to Biblical Archaeology Review.  Early life and education  Greenspoon was born in 1945 in Richmond, Virginia. His father was a Ukrainian Jewish immigrant, and his mother was an American Jew from Richmond. He earned both his bachelor's and master's degrees in classical studies at the University of Richmond, where he specialized in Greek and Latin. His master's thesis examined the political activities of Philo. Initially beginning doctoral studies in Classics at Harvard University, he shifted to biblical and ancient Near Eastern studies, studying under George Ernest Wright and Frank Moore Cross. His Ph.D. dissertation was completed in 1977 and later published as Textual Studies in the Book of Joshua .  Academic career  From 1975 to 1996, Greenspoon was on the faculty of Clemson University. In 1996, he joined Creighton University as the Klutznick Chair in Jewish...
Machines That Make Civilization Fun is a solo studio album by American hip hop musician Bigg Jus, a former member of Company Flow. It was released on Mush Records in 2012. Black Roses was released as a single from the album.  Critical reception  At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 65, based on 7 reviews, indicating generally favorable reviews. Thomas Quinlan of Exclaim! wrote, Machines That Make Civilization Fun is Bigg Jus's best, most well-rounded solo album so far, but it's still a difficult listen that will likely limit the album's appeal to advanced listeners only. Emma H. Sundstrom of PopMatters gave the album 7 stars out of 10, stating, It's hard to gauge now how dated it will sound in five or ten years, but at this moment, it's the neurotic and deafening sound of a civilization whose machines are beginning to break down, and it sounds terrifyingly familiar. Bram E. Gieben of The Skinny gave the album 4 stars out of 5, commenting that Far from instant gratification, what this album offers is a puzzle-box of rhymes and beats to decode at times cryptic, at others...
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to ancient India: Ancient India is the Indian subcontinent from prehistoric times to the start of Medieval India, which is typically dated to the end of the Gupta Empire around 500 CE.  General history of Ancient India  An elaborate periodisation may be as follows:  Pre-history  Indian Pre-history Age Bhirrana culture Mehrgarh culture  Proto-history  Indus Valley Civilisation , including the first urbanisation Ahar-Banas culture Ochre Coloured Pottery culture Cemetery H culture  Iron Age  Iron Age India Vedic civilisation Black and red ware culture in Western Ganges plain Northern Black Polished Ware Painted Grey Ware culture Brihadratha dynasty Gandhara Kingdom Kuru Kingdom c. 1200 -...
Mehmed tf Hoca was a Turkish Islamist. He was born in the village of Toyhane, in the district of Bayat, orum Province, in the Ottoman Empire and went to school there. After a couple of years as an imam in skilip in 1893 he went to Istanbul to continue his education, first at a medrese and from 1902 at Dar'l-fnun Faculty of Divinity. He graduated in 1903 and took a job teaching as Ders-i Amm , at the madrasah in the Fatih Mosque, Istanbul. He was later arrested and jailed several times, but freed. He and Mustafa Sabri were the founding members of Cemiyet-i Mderrisin. They were fiercely against the national government in Ankara which led the Turks to the Turkish War of Independence. He referred to Turkish Nationalists as rabid bandits. His father was a Turk from the Akkoyunlu Bayndr tribe, while his mother was an Arab originally from Hijaz. In 1924, before the westernization movement in Turkey, he wrote a book titled Frenk Mukallitlii ve apka . In it he advocated Sharia law and opposed what he called western influences, such as Alcohol...
Professor Layton and the Azran Legacy is a puzzle game developed by Level-5 for the Nintendo 3DS. It is the sixth entry in the Professor Layton series, making up the third and final part of the prequel trilogy of games and, according to Level-5 CEO Akihiro Hino, it was intended to be the last Layton title to star Professor Layton himself as the protagonist. However, with the announcement of Professor Layton and The New World of Steam in 2023, this is no longer the case. The game saw a release in early to late 2013 in all territories except North America, where it was released on February 28 of the following year. In a departure from the previous entries, Azran Legacy is an around the world adventure that sees Professor Layton and company journey to multiple locations both in and outside of England, in an attempt to uncover the truth behind the ancient elder race civilization, the Azran.  Story  One year after the events of the previous entry, Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask, Layton, Luke, and Emmy are invited by Professor Desmond Sycamore, an eminent archaeologist who affirms that he discovered a so-called living mummy. Boarding the airship Bostonius, piloted by Raymond...
The Civilization of Mesopotamia ranges from the earliest human occupation in the Paleolithic period up to Late antiquity. This history is pieced together from evidence retrieved from archaeological excavations and, after the introduction of writing in the late 4th millennium BC, an increasing amount of historical sources. Mesopotamia has been home to many of the oldest major civilizations, entering history from the Early Bronze Age, for which reason it is often called a cradle of civilization.  Short outline of Mesopotamia  Mesopotamia Ancient Greek: , romanized: Mesopotam Classical Syriac:  , lit. 'B Nahrn' means Between the Rivers. The oldest known occurrence of the name Mesopotamia dates to the 4th century BC, when it was used to designate the area between the Euphrates and the Tigris. The name was presumably translated from a term already current in the area-probably in Aramaic-and apparently was understood to mean the land lying between the rivers, now Iraq. Later and in the broader sense, the historical region included not only the area of present-day Iraq, but also parts of present-day Iran, Syria and Turkey. The neighbouring...
Apocalypto is a 2006 epic historical action-adventure film produced and directed by Mel Gibson, who co-wrote the screenplay with Farhad Safinia. The film features a cast of Indigenous and Mexican actors consisting of Rudy Youngblood, Raoul Trujillo, Mayra Srbulo, Dalia Hernndez, Gerardo Taracena, Jonathan Brewer, Rodolfo Palacios, Bernardo Ruiz Juarez, Ammel Rodrigo Mendoza, Ricardo Diaz Mendoza, and Israel Contreras. Set in either Yucatn or Guatemala during the year 1502, Apocalypto portrays the hero's journey of a young man named Jaguar Paw, a late Mesoamerican hunter and his fellow tribesmen who are captured by an invading force. After a raid on their village, they are brought on a perilous journey to a Maya city for human sacrifice at a time when the Maya civilization is in decline. Principal photography took place in Mexico from November 21, 2005 to July 2006. All dialogue is in a modern approximation of the ancient language of the setting, and the Indigenous Yucatec Mayan language is spoken with subtitles, which sometimes refer to the language as Mayan. Apocalypto was distributed by Buena Vista Pictures Distribution in North America and Icon Film Distribution in the United...
Protohistory is the period between prehistory and written history, during which a culture or civilization has not yet developed writing, but other cultures that have developed writing have noted the existence of those pre-literate groups in their own writings. Protohistoric may also refer to the transition period between the advent of literacy in a society and the writings of the first historians. The preservation of oral traditions may complicate matters, as they can provide a secondary historical source for even earlier events. Colonial sites involving a literate group and a nonliterate group are also studied as protohistoric situations. The term can also refer to a period in which fragmentary or external historical documents, not necessarily including a developed writing system, have been found. For instance, the Proto-Three Kingdoms of Korea, the Yayoi, recorded by the Chinese, and the Mississippian groups, recorded by early European explorers, are protohistoric.  Use of term  In The Oxford Illustrated History of Prehistoric Europe, an article by archaeologist Timothy Taylor states, Because of the existence in some but not all societies of historical writing during the first...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 780 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Open-source films also known as open-content films and free-content films are films which are produced and distributed by using free and open-source and open content methodologies. Their source files are freely available and the licenses used meet the demands of the Open Source Initiative in terms of freedom.  Definition  A definition of an open-source film is based on the OSI's open-source software definition and the definition of free cultural licenses. This definition can be applied to films where: The license of the movie is approved for free cultural works. Specifically this is true for the Creative Commons licenses BY and BY-SA. The materials used in the movie are also available under a license which is approved for free cultural works. The movie and its sources are made publicly available via an online download or by other means that are either free or with a cost that covers reasonable reproduction expenses only. The sources should be viewable and editable with freeopen-source software. If this is not the case they must be convertible into such a format by using freeopen-source software. The same applies to the movie itself. It should be possible to...
This is an incomplete list of notable applications that run on iOS where source code is available under a free softwareopen-source software license. Note however that much of this software is dual-licensed for non-free distribution via the iOS app store for example, the GPL version 3 is not compatible with the app store.  See also  App Store List of iOS games List of free and open-source Android applications List of free and open-source software packages  References   External links  Open Source iOS Apps - Real iOS Source Code Examples. Maniacdev.com. 25 August 2014. Open Source iPhone and iPad Apps. FreeSMUG. Archived from the original on January 11, 2014. Collaborative List of Open-Source iOS Apps. GitHub. 19 October 2021.
The following is a list of statistical software.  Open-source  ADaMSoft - a generalized statistical software with data mining algorithms and methods for data management ADMB - a software suite for non-linear statistical modeling based on C which uses automatic differentiation Chronux - for neurobiological time series data DAP - free replacement for SAS Environment for DeveLoping KDD-Applications Supported by Index-Structures a software framework for developing data mining algorithms in Java Epi Info - statistical software for epidemiology developed by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Apache 2 licensed Fityk - nonlinear regression software GNU Octave - programming language very similar to MATLAB with statistical features gretl - gnu regression, econometrics and time-series library intrinsic Noise Analyzer - For analyzing intrinsic fluctuations in biochemical systems jamovi - A free GUI and library for R JASP - A free software alternative to IBM SPSS Statistics with additional option for Bayesian methods JMulTi - For econometric analysis, specialised in univariate and multivariate time series analysis Just another Gibbs sampler...
The following is a list of spreadsheets.  Free and open-source software   Cloud and on-line spreadsheets  Collabora Online Calc - Enterprise-ready LibreOffice. LibreOffice Online Calc ONLYOFFICE - Community Server Edition Sheetster - Community Edition is available under the AGPL Simple Spreadsheet Tiki Wiki CMS Groupware includes a spreadsheet since 2004 and migrated to jQuery.sheet in 2010.  Spreadsheets that are parts of suites  Apache OpenOffice Calc - for MS Windows, Linux and the Apple Macintosh. Started as StarOffice, later as OpenOffice.org. It has not received a major update since 2014 and security fixes have not been prompt. Collabora Online Calc - Enterprise-ready LibreOffice, included with Online, Mobile and Desktop apps Gnumeric - for Linux. Started as the GNOME desktop spreadsheet. Reasonably lightweight but has very advanced features. KSpread - following the fork of the Calligra Suite from KOffice in mid-2010, superseded by KCells in KOffice and Sheets in the Calligra Suite. LibreOffice Calc - developed for MS Windows, Linux, BSD and Apple Macintosh operating systems by The Document Foundation. The Document Foundation was formed in mid-2010 by several...
The Apache Software Foundation is an American nonprofit corporation organization in the United States that supports a number of open-source software projects. The ASF was formed from a group of developers of the Apache HTTP Server, and incorporated on March 25, 1999. As of 2021, it includes approximately 1000 members. The Apache Software Foundation is a decentralized open source community of developers. The software they produce is distributed under the terms of the Apache License, a permissive open-source license for free and open-source software . The Apache projects are characterized by a collaborative, consensus-based development process and an open and pragmatic software license, which is to say that it allows developers, who receive the software freely, to redistribute it under non-free terms. Each project is managed by a self-selected team of technical experts who are active contributors to the project. The ASF is a meritocracy, with membership granted only to volunteers who have actively contributed to Apache projects. Among the ASF's objectives are: to provide legal protection to volunteers working on Apache projects, and...
The Open Source Software Institute is a U.S.-based 501, non-profit organization whose mission is to promote the development and implementation of open-source software solutions within US Federal, state and municipal government agencies.  History  OSSI was established in 2000 and has focused on strategic initiatives to promote the adoption of open source within US Department of Defense and Department of Homeland Security.  Projects  Efforts include securing the Federal Information Processing Standards FIPS 140-2 validation for the OpenSSL cryptographic module library, participation in development of the U.S. Navy's Open Source Guidance Document, securing the Open Source Corporate Management Information System with the Defense Information Systems Agency, and working with the Department of Homeland Security's Science and Technology Directorate to establish and implement the Homeland Open Security Technology program, which promotes open security.  See also  Open Solutions Alliance Open Source Initiative  References   Further reading  Marsan, Carolyn Duffy . Military enlists open source community. NetworkWorld. Retrieved 2022...
Free content, libre content, or open content also called free information, libre information, open information is any kind of creative work, such as a work of art, a book, a software program, or any other creative content for which copyright and other legal limitations on usage, modification and distribution are minimal. These are works or expressions which can be freely studied, applied, copied and modified by anyone for any purpose. Often this includes commercial purposes, as explicitly required by some definitions of free content. Free content encompasses all works in the public domain, as well as works copyrighted under licenses that comply with the Definition of Free Cultural Works. In most countries, the Berne Convention grants copyright holders control over their creations by default. Therefore, copyrighted content must be explicitly declared free by the authors, which is usually accomplished by referencing or including licensing statements from within the work. The right to reuse such a work is granted by the authors in a license known as a free license, a free distribution license, or an open license, depending on the rights assigned. These freedoms given to users in the...
Software composition analysis is a practice in the fields of Information technology and software engineering for analyzing custom-built software applications to detect embedded open-source software and detect if they are up-to-date, contain security flaws, or have licensing requirements.  Background  It is a common software engineering practice to develop software by using different components. Using software components segments the complexity of larger elements into smaller pieces of code and increases flexibility by enabling easier reuse of components to address new requirements. The practice has widely expanded since the late 1990s with the popularization of open-source software to help speed up the software development process and reduce time to market. However, using open-source software introduces many risks for the software applications being developed. These risks can be organized into 5 categories: OSS Version Control: risks of changes introduced by new versions Security: risks of vulnerabilities in components - Common Vulnerabilities  Exposures License: risks of Intellectual property legal requirements Development: risks of compatibility between...
Rare Objects is a 2016 historical fiction novel by American author Kathleen Tessaro. The book was released on April 12, 2016 through Harper and is Tessaro's sixth published novel. Katie Holmes adapted the book into a screenplay and went on to produce, direct, and act in the film, which opened in theaters and online streaming on April 14, 2023.  Synopsis  The book follows Maeve, who wants to be more than just the child of Irish immigrants - something made more difficult by the Great Depression. However, despite her attempts Maeve cannot keep herself away from the fast men and easy alcohol that ends up landing her in a mental asylum. It's there that she meets Diana, a young woman with an equally large hunger for freedoms not usually allowed women of the era. After she leaves Maeve manages to pick up the pieces of her life and begins working at an antiques shop, where she runs into Diana, who Maeve discovers is a socialite. Still eager to improve herself, Maeve lets Diana and her brother James draw her into their world, something that might end up proving to be disastrous for the young woman.  Reception  Publishers Weekly wrote a mostly favorable review for Rare Objects, stating...
Laxman Giluwa 20 December 1964 - 29 April 2021 Hindi pronunciation:  was an Indian politician and president of the Jharkhand unit of Bharatiya Janata Party. His home state was Jharkhand in India and was a member of the 13th Lok Sabha of the Singhbhum constituency from 1999 to 2004. He also contested in the 2014 Lok Sabha election in Singhbhum district with the ticket of Bharatiya Janata Party.  Personal life  He married on 10 August 1996, to Malati Giluwa. Together, they had four children: two sons and two daughters. He received a B.Com. from the Ranchi University, Ranchi Giluwa. Died from COVID-19 in April 2021.  Positions held  1991 Member, District Council, Ernakulam, Kerala 1999 Elected to 13th Lok Sabha 1999-2000 Member, Committee on Science and Technology, Environment and Forests 2000-2004 Member, Consultative Committee, Ministry of Railways  References 
The Democratic Left Party is a Turkish political party, founded on 14 November 1985 by Rahan Ecevit.  History   1985-1999  The DSP, a social-democratic oriented party, was registered on 14 November 1985 by Rahan Ecevit, wife of Blent Ecevit, as he was banned from political life after the 1980 coup d'tat. In 1986, Blent Ecevit addressed the DSP convention in Ankara, declaring his support for the party. The address landed him in court for allegedly violating the political bans. The DSP was unable, however, to achieve a substantial showing in the 1986 Turkish parliamentary by-elections even though Ecevit, despite his ban, continued to campaign at the party's rallies as a guest speaker. The political ban on Ecevit was lifted following a referendum in 1987. Later that year, Rahan Ecevit handed over the rule of the party to her spouse. But the party failed to pass the 10 national threshold needed for a political party to have a seat in Parliament in the 1987 elections, prompting the Ecevits to step down from their positions in the party. In 1988, Necdet Karababa was elected as the new party leader. However, the next year, Ecevit was reelected...
Ranheim Fotball is a Norwegian football club from Ranheim in Trondheim that currently plays in 1. divisjon, the second tier in the Norwegian football league system. Ranheim is the football department of Ranheim IL, founded on 17 February 1901.  History  Ranheim played in the Norwegian top flight during the following seasons 1937-38, 1938-39, 1939-40 and 1947-48, as well as in 1949-50, 1952-53, 1954-55 and 1955-56. Since 2006, Ranheim has acted as a farm club for Rosenborg, its goal being to establish a football team from Trndelag in the 1. divisjon. Ranheim came close to qualifying in 2007 and 2008. Former manager Per Joar Hansen earned Ranheim a promotion to the 1. divisjon after the 2009 season. They played their first 6 home matches at Abrahallen, and on 10 July 2010, they moved to their new stadium, ETRA Arena. Ranheim finished 5th in the 2010 1. divisjon and qualified for the promotion play-offs for a place in the Tippeligaen. In the 2017 season, Ranheim gained promotion to the top level for the first time since 1955-56 after beating Sogndal. Over two legs, they first lost 1-0 away and went on to win 1-0 at home. After two scoreless periods of extra time they secured promotion...
Honj was a village located in Minamiamabe District, ita Prefecture, Japan. As of 2003, the village had an estimated population of 1,974 and the density of 16.03 persons per km2. The total area was 123.15 km2. On March 3, 2005, Honj, along with the towns of Kamae, Kamiura, Tsurumi, Ume and Yayoi, and the villages of Naokawa and Yonzu , was merged into the expanded city of Saiki.  References 
Voices from the Fuselage are an English progressive metal band from Northampton, currently signed to White Star Records. The band formed in 2010, when they attended Northampton College together, studying Music Practice. They have released two albums Odyssey: The Destroyer of Worlds and their latest, Odyssey: The Founder of Dreams, was released in 2018, as well as an EP entitled Hope in 2011. They were signed by John Mitchell of Arena and John Wetton's band. In between their EP and first album, Ashe O'Hara was also singing for the progressive band Tesseract as part of their pivotal album Altered State.  History   Early years  Voices from the Fuselage started in 2010 whilst studying Music Practice at Northampton College. The original line-up performed Karnivool and Anberlin covers as part of their Music Practice course. In the second year of college , drummer Scott Lockhart joined the band. Voices from the Fuselage started writing original material in 2011 and went on to release their first single 'Out Of Hand' on SoundCloud, which was written during a class in college. The band continued writing original music in-between classes, eventually releasing...
Janet Turk Wittes is an American biostatistician and entrepreneur, known for her work on statistical issues in clinical trials. She is the former chief of statistics at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. One of her three children is Benjamin Wittes, legal and national security journalist.  Education  Wittes is the daughter of a chemist and a psychologist. She began her studies at Radcliffe College in the biochemistry program, choosing it over chemistry because of its added opportunities for mentorship. Her faculty mentor, John Tileston Edsall, noting her preference for inference over experiment, guided her to aim for a career in statistics. Towards this goal, Wittes switched her major to mathematics, graduating in 1964. Wittes stayed at Harvard University for her graduate studies in statistics. At Harvard, she was supported by a fellowship from the United States Public Health Service chosen because its application form was short and because of this ended up working in biostatistics. Wittes completed her Ph.D. in 1970 her doctoral advisor was Theodore Colton.  Career  While her husband, physician Robert E. Wittes, served a term in the United States Public Health...
Chilara taylori, the spotted cusk-eel, is a species of cusk-eel found along the eastern coast of the Pacific Ocean where it is found at depths down to around 280 metres from Washington, United States to Ecuador. This species grows to a length of 40.4 centimetres TL. It is the only known member of its genus.  References 
John Harold Sherf was an American ice hockey player. He played 19 games in the National Hockey League with the Detroit Red Wings between 1936 and 1943. The rest of his career, which lasted from 1935 to 1944, was mainly spent in the American Hockey League. Sherf won the Stanley Cup in 1937 with Detroit, and is the second U.S. citizen to have his name engraved on the Cup. The first American to have his name engraved on the Stanley Cup, also from Michigan's upper peninsula, was Clarence Taffy Abel of Sault Ste. Marie, who played for the NHL champion New York Rangers in 1928 and Chicago Blackhawks in 1934. His name is engraved on the Stanley Cup with his teammates on those teams.  Biography  Sherf was born and spent his childhood years in Calumet, Michigan in the state's Upper Peninsula. He participated in youth ice hockey, which was popular in the cold climate of the area. By the time he graduated from Calumet High School his hockey skills were widely recognized. In the working class area where he was raised, he was destined to go to work in the copper mines in the area, continuing his hockey career in the local semi-professional leagues. A local...
Socket M is a CPU socket introduced by Intel in 2006. It was used in all Intel Core products, as well as the Core-derived Dual-Core eon codenamed Sossaman. It was also used in the first generation of the mobile version of Intel's Core 2 Duo, specifically, the T5x00 and T7x00 Merom lines , though that line switched to Socket P in 2007.  Technical specifications  Socket M typically uses the Intel 945PM945GM chipsets which support up to 667 MHz FSB and the Intel PM965GM965 which allows 800 MHz FSB support, though the Socket M, PM965GM965 combination is less common. The Sossaman eons use the E7520 chipset. Although conflicting information has been published, no 45 nm Penryn processors have been released for Socket M.  Relation to other sockets  Socket M is pin-compatible with the older mobile Socket 479 for Pentium III-M processors but is not electrically compatible. Socket M is not pin-compatible with the older desktop Socket 478 for Pentium 4 processors or the newer mobile Socket P for later Core processors by location of one pin it is also incompatible with most versions of the older...
Alchemy is an album released in 1969 by the Third Ear Band.  Track listing  All compositions by Coff, Minns and Sweeney, except Lark Rise Mosaic - 6:31 Ghetto Raga - 10:32 Druid One - 3:49 Stone Circle - 3:28 Egyptian Book of the Dead - 8:55 Area Three - 8:33 Dragon Lines - 5:33 Lark Rise - 2:46  Personnel  Paul Minns - oboe, recorder Mel Davis - cello, pipe Glen Sweeney - chimes, drums, tabla, wind chimes, hand drums Richard Coff - violin, viola with: Dave Tomlin - violin on Lark Rise John Peel - harmonica, Jew's harp on Area Three Technical Ken Scott, Peter Mew - engineer Dave Loxley - design, artwork Ray Stevenson - photography  References 
Patricia Josephine Smith was an Australian international lawn bowler.  Bowls career  Pat was part of the fours team that won a silver medal at the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh. She had previously competed at the 1982 Commonwealth Games. She also won a gold medal and a silver medal, at the 1985 Asia Pacific Bowls Championships in Tweed Heads, New South Wales and bowled for New South Wales from 1972-1987.  Awards  She was awarded the Australian Sports Medal in 2000 and the Member of the Order of Australia in 1989 for services to bowls.  References 
Walter John Plimmer Sr. was an English theatrical producer, owner, and agent. He owned his own theatrical agency.  Early life  Walter Plimmer Sr. was born in March 1869 in Birmingham, England and came to the United States as a young man around 1884.  Theater career  After immigrating to the U.S. he established the Walter Plimmer theatrical agency with having offices in both New York and Chicago. He would stage many plays and musical reviews, including the comedy, Put and Take. He was also a pioneer in the talking picture field. He was one of the only organizers of the Vocafilm company in New York. He was an associate of Counihan and Shannon theater magnates when they were located in Plainfield, New Jersey. He also founded the Family Department of the Keith Circuit and produced many of the plays. He had them located in Dunellen, New Jersey and Bound Brook. He also produced plays for the London stage and on Broadway. At one time he was the largest independent operator of a chain theater in New York. Also in his lifetime, he was the manager of the Opera House of New Brunswick, NJ. He was able to work with such stars as Ben Bernie, George M. Cohan...
Folsomdale is an unincorporated community in Graves County, Kentucky, United States. A post office was opened in the community in 1886, and named for President Cleveland's bride Frances Folsom, who had recently become First Lady at age 21.  References 
Charles C. Lopez born August 4, 1960, in Brooklyn, New York is an American jockey in Thoroughbred horse racing. Recorded as Charles, he is the son of jockey Carlos Lopez, Sr. His own sons, Erick and David Lopez, are also jockeys. Lopez began his professional riding career at Keystone Racetrack in Bensalem Township, Pennsylvania, where he got his first win aboard Foolish Tracy on January 15, 1979. He was the leading rider at Meadowlands Racetrack in 1979 and 2003 and at Monmouth Park Racetrack in 1998.  References  Chuck C. Lopez at the NTRA  Year-end charts 
Streptomyces incanus is a bacterium species from the genus of Streptomyces which has been isolated from soil of a hay meadow from the Cockle Park Experimental Farm in Northumberland in the United Kingdom.  See also  List of Streptomyces species  References   Further reading  Kim, BY Rong,  Zucchi, TD Bonda, AN Huang, Y Goodfellow, M . Streptomyces herbaceus sp. nov., Streptomyces incanus sp. nov. and Streptomyces pratens sp. nov., isolated from the soil of a hay meadow. International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology. 62 : 1908-13. doi:10.1099ijs.0.036384-0. PMID 21984681.  External links  Type strain of Streptomyces incanus at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
The Kissingen Dictation is a diplomatic file created in Bad Kissingen by the German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck during the summer of 1877. It contains the principles of his foreign policy. Bismarck feared coalitions of the other European powers against the newly created German Empire of 1871 nightmare of coalitions or French cauchemar des coalitions with its vulnerable geographical position in the middle of Europe. The unification of Germany had been achieved in a war against France in 187071. France had lost Alsace and a part of Lorraine at the end and Bismarck feared a French revenge. In the Kissingen Dictation, which Otto von Bismarck dictated to his son Herbert in connection with the Great Eastern Crisis on 15 June 1877 in Bad Kissingen, he designed the ideal image of a political situation in which all powers except France require us and are deterred of coalitions against us by their relations to each other as far as possible. The document describes a defensive policy to avoid a war in central Europe and so to secure the position of Germany. To prevent alliances against Germany Bismarck wanted to use the conflicts of interest between the...
The architecture of Tokyo has largely been shaped by the city's history. Twice in recent history has the metropolis been left in ruins: first in the 1923 Great Kant earthquake and later after extensive firebombing in World War II. Because of this and other factors, Tokyo's current urban landscape is mostly modern and contemporary architecture, and older buildings are scarce. Tokyo once was a city with low buildings and packed with single family homes, today the city has a larger focus on high rise residential homes and urbanization. Tokyo's culture is changing as well as increased risk of natural catastrophes, because of this architecture has had to make dramatic changes since the 1990s. Located off of Tokyo Bay which makes typhoons and rising sea levels a current risk, along with volcanoes and large earthquakes. As a result of this, a new focus has been placed on waterborne risks such as rising sea levels and seismic events. Tokyo in recent years has been growing at a steady rate. As a result, new buildings have been built at increased heights in order to make the most out of the land they occupy. Tokyo continues to advance in technology and grow, which will continue to change its...
The architecture of Serbia has a long, rich and diverse history. Some of the major European style from Roman to Postmodern are demonstrated, including renowned examples of Raka, Serbo-Byzantine with its revival, Morava, Baroque, Classical and Modern architecture, with prime examples in Brutalism and Streamline Moderne. Centuries of turbulent history of Serbia caused a great regional diversity and favored vernacular architecture. This made for a heterogeneous and diverse architectural style, with architecture differing from town to town. While this diversity may still be witnessed in small towns, the devastation of architectural heritage in the larger cities during World War II, and subsequent socialist influence on architecture resulted in specific mix of architectural styles.  Prehistoric period  Numerous civilizations and cultures resided on the territory of Serbia prior to the arrival of the Romans. Best known ones were Starevo, Iron Gates and Vina cultures, dating between 7000 BCE to 4500 BCE. The oldest human remains were found in Sievo believed to be up to 525,000-397,000 years old. Prehistoric structures are simple in design, using local materials such as wood, mud...
Expressionist architecture was an architectural movement in Europe during the first decades of the 20th century in parallel with the expressionist visual and performing arts that especially developed and dominated in Germany. Brick Expressionism is a special variant of this movement in western and northern Germany, as well as in the Netherlands where it is known as the Amsterdam School.  In the 1920s  The term Expressionist architecture initially described the activity of the German, Dutch, Austrian, Czech and Danish avant garde from 1910 until 1930. Subsequent redefinitions extended the term backwards to 1905 and also widened it to encompass the rest of Europe. Today the meaning has broadened even further to refer to architecture of any date or location that exhibits some of the qualities of the original movement such as distortion, fragmentation or the communication of violent or overstressed emotion. The style was characterised by an early-modernist adoption of novel materials, formal innovation, and very unusual massing, sometimes inspired by natural biomorphic forms, sometimes by the new technical possibilities offered by the mass production of brick, steel, and especially...
Novelty architecture, also called programmatic architecture or mimetic architecture, is a type of architecture in which buildings and other structures are given unusual shapes for purposes such as advertising or to copy other famous buildings. Their size and novelty means that they often serve as landmarks. They are distinct from architectural follies: novelty architecture refers to usable buildings in eccentric form, whereas follies are purely ornamental .  Overview  Although earlier examples exist, such as the planned but never completed Parisian Elephant of the Bastille, the style generally became popular in the United States, and later to some other countries, as travel by automobile increased in the 1930s. New York City's Statue of Liberty is a statue that is part sculpture and part monument, which like many subsequent examples of novelty architecture, has an accessible interior and became a tourist attraction. Constructing novelty architecture near to roads became one way of attracting motorists to a diner, coffee shop, or roadside attraction, so buildings were constructed in an unusual shape, especially the shape of the things sold there...
The architecture of England is the architecture of the historic Kingdom of England up to 1707, and of England since then, but is deemed to include buildings created under English influence or by English architects in other parts of the world, particularly in the English overseas possessions and the later British Empire, which developed into the present-day Commonwealth of Nations. Apart from Anglo-Saxon architecture, the major non-vernacular forms employed in England before 1900 originated elsewhere in western Europe, chiefly in France and Italy, while 20th-century Modernist architecture derived from both European and American influences. Each of these foreign modes became assimilated within English architectural culture and gave rise to local variation and innovation, producing distinctive national forms. Among the most characteristic styles originating in England are the Perpendicular Gothic of the late Middle Ages, High Victorian Gothic and the Queen Anne style.  Prehistoric architecture  The earliest known examples of architecture in England are the megalithic tombs of the Neolithic, such as those at Wayland's Smithy and the West Kennet Long Barrow. These cromlechi are common...
Solar architecture is designing buildings to use the sun's heat and light to maximum advantage and minimum disadvantage, and especially refers to harnessing solar power. It is related to the fields of optics, thermics, electronics and materials science. Both active and passive strategies are involved. The use of flexible thin-film photovoltaic modules provides fluid integration with steel roofing profiles, enhancing the building's design. Orienting a building to the sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air also constitute solar architecture. Improvements in solar architecture have been limited by the rigidity and weight of standard solar power panels. The continued development of photovoltaic thin film solar has provided a lightweight yet robust vehicle to harness solar energy to reduce a building's impact on the environment.  History  The idea of passive solar building design first appeared in Greece around the fifth century BC. Up until that time, the Greeks' main source of fuel had been charcoal, but due to a major shortage of wood to burn they were forced to find a new way of heating...
Forensic Architecture is a multidisciplinary research group based at Goldsmiths, University of London that uses architectural techniques and technologies to investigate cases of state violence and violations of human rights around the world. The group is led by architect Eyal Weizman. He received a Peabody Award in 2021 for his work with Forensic Architecture. The agency develops new evidentiary techniques and undertakes advanced architectural and media research with and on behalf of communities affected by state violence, and routinely works in partnership with international prosecutors, human rights organisations and political and environmental justice groups. It consists of an interdisciplinary team of investigators including architects, scholars, artists, filmmakers, software developers, investigative journalists, archaeologists, lawyers, and scientists. It investigates alleged human rights violations by states or corporations on behalf of civil society groups. The group uses advanced architectural and media techniques to investigate armed conflicts and environmental destruction, as well as to cross-reference a variety of evidence sources, such as new media, remote sensing, material...
The architecture of Tunisia began with the ancient civilizations such as the Carthaginians, Numidians, and Romans. After the 7th century, Islamic architecture developed in the region under a succession of dynasties and empires. In the late 19th century French colonial rule introduced European architecture, and modern architecture became common in the second half of the 20th century. The southern regions of the country are also home to diverse examples of local vernacular architecture used by the Berber population.  Antiquity   Punic Carthage  Large regions of North Africa, particularly near the coasts, came under the control of Carthage, a Phoenician civilization, at the height of its power in the third century BC. The remains of Carthage are found near Tunis today and contain the remains of multiple periods ranging from the Punic period to the later Arab occupation. Vestiges of the Punic period include the Punic Ports and a sanctuary and necropolis dedicated to Baal Hammon, known today as the Sanctuary of Tophet.  Numidia  The kingdom of Numidia was contemporary with the Carthaginian civilization and the Roman Republic. Among other...
Kuwaiti architecture is a style of architecture unique to Kuwait, a country founded in the early 18th century. Before the discovery of oil, Kuwait has an economy reliant on maritime trade, shipbuilding, caravan trade and the pearl industry. The economy improved by the discovery of oil, enabling more economic growth.  History  Kuwait City was surrounded by a wall with five gates in the 18th century, but it was demolished when the new masterplan was implemented in 1952. Apart from the city wall, Kuwait was protected by two forts: one in the city, and the other one at Jahra known as the Red Fort. Kuwait's traditional building materials were stone collected from the sea or rubble stone covered with thick mud plaster, mud brick and sometimes Cora stone. Wood was rare, though mangrove poles imported from East Africa were used for roofs, as were some other few select woods from India. Early Kuwaiti architecture was relatively simple and intuitive, with a focus on maintaining the privacy of the house. Houses had simple and basic exterior designs, and most artistic touches were found on main doors and windows. These houses having to accommodate the communal and tight-knit nature of Kuwaiti...
The architecture of Singapore displays a range of influences and styles from different places and periods. These range from the eclectic styles and hybrid forms of the colonial period to the tendency of more contemporary architecture to incorporate trends from around the world. In both aesthetic and technological terms, Singapore architecture may be divided into the more traditional pre-World War II colonial period, and the largely modern post-war and post-colonial period. Traditional architecture in Singapore includes vernacular Malay houses, local hybrid shophouses and black and white bungalows, a range of places of worship reflecting the ethnic and religious diversity of the city-state as well as colonial civic and commercial architecture in European Neoclassical, gothic, palladian and renaissance styles. Modern architecture in Singapore began with the transitional Art Deco style and the arrival of reinforced concrete as a popular building material. International Style modern architecture was popular from the 1950s to the 1970s, especially in the public housing apartment blocks. The Brutalist style of architecture was also popular in the 1970s. These styles coincided with the great...
A distinct Indo-Islamic architecture style with local contribution is reflected in the historical buildings of Hyderabad, making it the first and Best Heritage City of India as of March 2012. The city houses many famous historical sites constructed during Qutb Shahi and Asaf Jahi period, including various mosques and palaces. Hindu Temple Architecture is also seen in the temples of Hyderabad, including the Birla Mandir, Jagannath Temple and Akanna Madanna Temple. Modern architectural styles are seen in most buildings constructed after independence.  Golconda Sultanate  Qutb Shahi architecture of the 16th and early 17th centuries followed classical Persian architecture featuring domes and colossal arches. Inscriptions in Persian and elaborately carved stucco work are found on most of these buildings. The oldest surviving Qutb Shahi structure in Hyderabad is the ruins of Golconda fort built in the 16th century. The most important monuments from this time are the Charminar and Mecca Masjid, both built by Mohammed Quli Qutb Shah, the founder of Hyderabad. Most of the historical bazaars that still exist were constructed on the street north of Charminar towards the...
Lego Architecture is a Lego theme that aims to celebrate the past, present and future of architecture through the Lego Brick. The brand includes a series of Lego sets designed by Architectural Artist Adam Reed Tucker, and each contain the pieces and instructions to build a model of a famous architectural building or city skyline in micro-scale.  Development  Adam Reed Tucker earned a degree in architecture at Kansas State University in 1996. While there, he sought a method to join his two passions of art and architecture, and hit upon the idea of using Lego bricks. From this, he founded Brickstructures, Inc., and began to design and build models of famous landmarks. His work was noticed by The Lego Group, and together they formed a partnership to release some of his models as commercially available Lego sets under the Lego Architecture brand.  Architecture sets  According to BrickLink, The Lego Group has released 64 playsets as part of the Lego Architecture theme. Sets in the product line contain a premium booklet, that - besides the build instructions - also includes various information and pictures of the building itself. By the beginning...
ARM is a family of RISC instruction set architectures for computer processors. Arm Holdings develops the instruction set architecture and licenses it to other companies, who build the physical devices that use the instruction set. It also designs and licenses cores that implement these instruction set architectures. Due to their low costs, low power consumption, and low heat generation, ARM processors are useful for light, portable, battery-powered devices, including smartphones, laptops, and tablet computers, as well as embedded systems. However, ARM processors are also used for desktops and servers, including Fugaku, the world's fastest supercomputer from 2020 to 2022. With over 230 billion ARM chips produced, since at least 2003, and with its dominance increasing every year, ARM is the most widely used family of instruction set architectures. There have been several generations of the ARM design. The original ARM1 used a 32-bit internal structure but had a 26-bit address space that limited it to 64 MB of main memory. This limitation was removed in the ARMv3 series, which has a 32-bit address space, and several additional generations up to ARMv7 remained...
A cognitive architecture is both a theory about the structure of the human mind and a computational instantiation of such a theory used in the fields of artificial intelligence and computational cognitive science. These formalized models can be used to further refine comprehensive theories of cognition and serve as the frameworks for useful artificial intelligence programs. Successful cognitive architectures include ACT-R and SOAR. The research on cognitive architectures as software instantiation of cognitive theories was initiated by Allen Newell in 1990. A theory for a cognitive architecture is an hypothesis about the fixed structures that provide a mind, whether in natural or artificial systems, and how they work together - in conjunction with knowledge and skills embodied within the architecture - to yield intelligent behavior in a diversity of complex environments.  History  Herbert A. Simon, one of the founders of the field of artificial intelligence, stated that the 1960 thesis by his student Ed Feigenbaum, EPAM provided a possible architecture for cognition because it included some commitments for how more than one fundamental...
Lambda architecture is a data-processing architecture designed to handle massive quantities of data by taking advantage of both batch and stream-processing methods. This approach to architecture attempts to balance latency, throughput, and fault-tolerance by using batch processing to provide comprehensive and accurate views of batch data, while simultaneously using real-time stream processing to provide views of online data. The two view outputs may be joined before presentation. The rise of lambda architecture is correlated with the growth of big data, real-time analytics, and the drive to mitigate the latencies of map-reduce. Lambda architecture depends on a data model with an append-only, immutable data source that serves as a system of record. It is intended for ingesting and processing timestamped events that are appended to existing events rather than overwriting them. State is determined from the natural time-based ordering of the data.  Overview  Lambda architecture describes a system consisting of three layers: batch processing, speed processing, and a serving layer for responding to queries. The processing layers ingest from an immutable master copy of the...
Portuguese architecture refers to both the architecture of Portugal's modern-day territory in Continental Portugal, the Azores and Madeira, as well as the architectural heritagepatrimony of Portuguese architects and styles throughout the world, particularly in countries formerly part of the Portuguese Empire. Like all aspects of Portuguese culture, Portuguese architecture reflects the artistic influences of the various cultures that have either inhabited Portugal or come in contact with the Portuguese people throughout the history of Portugal, including the Gallaecians, Lusitanians, Celtiberians, Romans, Suebi, Visigoths, Moors, Goans, Macanese, Kristang people, and many more. Because of the history of the Portuguese Empire, several countries across the world are home to sizable heritages of Portuguese colonial architecture, notably Brazil and Uruguay in the Americas, Angola, Cabo Verde, So Tom and Prncipe, Benin, Ghana, Morocco, Guinea Bissau, Zimbabwe, and Mozambique in Africa, and China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Timor Leste in Asia. Various artistic styles or movements have dominated Portuguese architecture throughout the ages, including Romanesque, Gothic, Manueline,...
In architecture, a folly is a building constructed primarily for decoration, but suggesting through its appearance some other purpose, or of such extravagant appearance that it transcends the range of usual garden buildings. Eighteenth-century English landscape gardening and French landscape gardening often featured mock Roman temples, symbolising classical virtues. Other 18th-century garden follies imitated Chinese temples, Egyptian pyramids, ruined medieval castles, abbeys, or Tatar tents, to represent different continents or historical eras. Sometimes they represented rustic villages, mills and cottages, to symbolise rural virtues. Many follies, particularly during times of famine, such as the Great Famine in Ireland, were built as a form of poor relief, to provide employment for peasants and unemployed artisans. In English, the term began as a popular name for any costly structure considered to have shown folly in the builder, the Oxford English Dictionary's definition. Follies are often named after the individual who commissioned or designed the project. The connotations of silliness or madness in this definition is in accord with the general meaning of the French word folie...
Sacral architecture also known as sacred architecture or religious architecture is a religious architectural practice concerned with the design and construction of places of worship or sacred or intentional space, such as churches, mosques, stupas, synagogues, and temples. Many cultures devoted considerable resources to their sacred architecture and places of worship. Religious and sacred spaces are amongst the most impressive and permanent monolithic buildings created by humanity. Conversely, sacred architecture as a locale for meta-intimacy may also be non-monolithic, ephemeral and intensely private, personal and non-public. Sacred, religious and holy structures often evolved over centuries and were the largest buildings in the world, prior to the modern skyscraper. While the various styles employed in sacred architecture sometimes reflected trends in other structures, these styles also remained unique from the contemporary architecture used in other structures. With the rise of Christianity and Islam, religious buildings increasingly became centres of worship, prayer and meditation. The Western scholarly discipline of the history of architecture itself closely follows the history...
In architecture, functionalism is the principle that buildings should be designed based solely on their purpose and function. An international functionalist architecture movement emerged in the wake of World War I, as part of the wave of Modernism. Its ideas were largely inspired by a desire to build a new and better world for the people, as broadly and strongly expressed by the social and political movements of Europe after the extremely devastating world war. In this respect, functionalist architecture is often linked with the ideas of socialism and modern humanism. A new slight addition to this new wave of architecture was that not only should buildings and houses be designed around the purpose of functionality, architecture should also be used as a means to physically create a better world and a better life for people in the broadest sense. This new functionalist architecture had the strongest impact in Czechoslovakia, Germany, Poland, the USSR and the Netherlands, and from the 1930s also in Scandinavia and Finland. This principle is a matter of confusion and controversy within the profession, particularly in regard to modern architecture, as it is less self-evident than it first...
Architecture in Libya spans thousands of years and includes ancient Roman sites, Islamic architecture, and modern architecture.  Roman  Tripoli was founded as a Phoenician colony in the 7th century BC and Tripolitania became a Roman province after the destruction of Carthage in 146 BC. Today, the ancient sites of Cyrene, Leptis Magna, and Sabratha are UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Other Roman remains include the Arch of Marcus Aurelius in Tripoli.  Early Islamic era  There are few surviving monuments of early Islamic architecture in Libya. Some traces of the Umayyad-era fortifications of Tripoli have been discovered, consisting of thick stone walls. The oldest significant examples of Islamic architecture are from the 10th century, when the region saw a period of relative prosperity under Fatimid control. During this time, the Fatimids developed forts and garrison towns to serve as staging posts between Egypt and Ifriqiya. The best-known site of this period is in Ajdabiya, where the Fatimids built a fortified palace and a mosque whose remains have been uncovered and documented by modern archeologists. The mosque was built with mudbrick walls, though stone was used for pillars...
In classical architecture, the term attic refers to a storey or a parapet above the cornice of a classical faade. The decoration of the topmost part of a building was particularly important in ancient Greek architecture and this came to be seen as typifying the Attica style, the earliest example known being that of the monument of Thrasyllus in Athens. It was largely employed in Ancient Rome, where their triumphal arches utilized it for inscriptions or for bas-relief sculpture. It was used also to increase the height of enclosure walls such as those of the Forum of Nerva. By the Italian revivalists it was utilized as a complete storey, pierced with windows, as found in Andrea Palladio's work in Vicenza and in Greenwich Hospital, London. One well-known large attic surmounts the entablature of St. Peter's Basilica, which measures 12 metres in height. Decorated attics with pinnacles are often associated with the Late Renaissance period in Poland and are viewed as a distinct feature of Polish historical architecture . Many examples can be found throughout the country, notably at Wawel Castle in Krakw, Gdask, Pozna, Lublin, Tarnw, Zamo...
Architecture terrible , lit. 'architecture which evokes terror' was an architectural style advocated by French architect Jacques-Franois Blondel in his nine-volume treatise Cours d'architecture . Blondel promoted the style for the exterior design of prisons: the form of the building itself would proclaim its function and serve as a deterrent, and so achieve a repulsive style of heaviness that would declare to the spectators outside the confused lives of those detained inside, along with the force required for those in charge to hold them confined. Blondel further described it as ...a style where the principles of art seem to be crushed under the weight of the Artist's ignorance. London's second Newgate Prison, built between 1768 and 1775, is an example of this style of architecture: reinforced walls almost without windows, a deliberate inelegance, and overt symbolism were all designed to instill terror in those who saw it.  See also  Brutalism Defensible space theory Panopticon Hostile architecture  References 
An Executable Architecture , in general, is the description of a system architecture in a formal notation together with the tools that allow the automatic or semi-automatic generation of artifacts , models, software stubs, Military Scenario Definition Language  from that notation and which are used in the analysis, refinement, andor the implementation of the architecture described.  Closely related subjects  Subjects closely related to EA include: Object Management Group's Model-driven architecture Object Management Group's Business Process Management Initiative Vanderbilt University's Model Integrated Computing  Implementations  Implementations of EA include: Rational Rose Generic Modeling Environment Open-Source eGov Reference Architecture  See also  Business Process Execution Language Business Process Management Initiative Business Process Modeling Language Executable Operational Architecture Model-driven architecture Model-driven engineering Object Management Group Semantic Web Unified Process Unified...
The hexagonal architecture, or ports and adapters architecture, is an architectural style used in software design. It aims at creating loosely coupled application components that can be easily connected to their software environment by means of ports and adapters. This makes components exchangeable at any level and facilitates test automation.  Origin  The hexagonal architecture was invented by Alistair Cockburn in an attempt to avoid known structural pitfalls in object-oriented software design, such as undesired dependencies between layers and contamination of user interface code with business logic. It was discussed at first on the Portland Pattern Repository wiki in 2005 Cockburn renamed it Ports and adapters. In April 2024, Cockburn published a comprehensive book on the subject, coauthored with Juan Manuel Garrido de Paz. The term hexagonal comes from the graphical conventions that shows the application component like a hexagonal cell. The purpose was not to suggest that there would be six bordersports, but to leave enough space to represent the different interfaces needed between the component and the external world.  Principle  The hexagonal architecture divides...
Indian architecture is rooted in the history, culture, and religion of India. Among multiple architectural styles and traditions, the best-known include the many built in accordance to Indian religion and philosophy with Hindu, Jain, Buddhist, and Sikh styles of architecture being the most prevalent in India, with Indo-Islamic architecture, Rajput architecture, Mughal architecture, South Indian architecture, and Indo-Saracenic architecture having a strong presence as well. Early Indian architecture was made from wood, which did not survive due to rotting and instability in the structures. Instead, the earliest surviving examples of Indian architecture are Indian rock-cut architecture, including many Buddhist, Hindu, and Jain temples. Hindu temple architecture is traditionally divided into two main architectural styles: the Dravidian style of southern India and Nagara style of northern India, with several regional variations that combine elements of both. Other regional styles, such as the Vesara style of the Deccan plateau and the Kalinga style of eastern India, developed through local tastes. In addition to temple architecture, domestic housing styles in India also vary widely between...
In Classical architecture and in art a term or terminal figure is a human head and bust that continues down as a square tapering pillar-like form. It is usually distinguished from a herm, which has a head and shoulders only, but the two words may be used rather loosely and interchangeably. The god Terminus was the Etruscan and Roman deity of boundaries, and classical sources say that boundary markers often took the form of a half-figure of the god on a pillar, though ancient survivals in this form are extremely rare. In the architecture and the painted architectural decoration of the European Renaissance and the succeeding Classical styles, term figures are quite common. Often they represent minor deities associated with fields and vineyards and the edges of woodland, Pan and fauns and Bacchantes especially, and they may be draped with garlands of fruit and flowers. Term figures were a particularly characteristic feature of the 16th-century style in furniture and carved interior decoration that is called Antwerp Mannerism. Ornament prints, such as a set of 20 School of Fontainebleau etchings from the 1540s usually given to Jean Mignon, disseminated the style...
Subsumption architecture is a reactive robotic architecture heavily associated with behavior-based robotics which was very popular in the 1980s and 90s. The term was introduced by Rodney Brooks and colleagues in 1986. Subsumption has been widely influential in autonomous robotics and elsewhere in real-time AI.  Overview  Subsumption architecture is a control architecture that was proposed in opposition to traditional symbolic AI. Instead of guiding behavior by symbolic mental representations of the world, subsumption architecture couples sensory information to action selection in an intimate and bottom-up fashion. It does this by decomposing the complete behavior into sub-behaviors. These sub-behaviors are organized into a hierarchy of layers. Each layer implements a particular level of behavioral competence, and higher levels are able to subsume lower levels  integratecombine lower levels to a more comprehensive whole in order to create viable behavior. For example, a robot's lowest layer could be avoid an object. The second layer would be wander around, which runs beneath the third layer explore the world. Because a robot must have the ability to avoid objects...
In software engineering, service-oriented architecture is an architectural style that focuses on discrete services instead of a monolithic design. SOA is a good choice for system integration. By consequence, it is also applied in the field of software design where services are provided to the other components by application components, through a communication protocol over a network. A service is a discrete unit of functionality that can be accessed remotely and acted upon and updated independently, such as retrieving a credit card statement online. SOA is also intended to be independent of vendors, products and technologies. Service orientation is a way of thinking in terms of services and service-based development and the outcomes of services. A service has four properties according to one of many definitions of SOA: It logically represents a repeatable business activity with a specified outcome. It is self-contained. It is a black box for its consumers, meaning the consumer does not have to be aware of the service's inner workings. It may be composed of other services. Different services can be used in conjunction as a service mesh to provide the functionality of a large software...
A keystone is the wedge-shaped stone at the apex of a masonry arch or typically round-shaped one at the apex of a vault. In both cases it is the final piece placed during construction and locks all the stones into position, allowing the arch or vault to bear weight. In arches and vaults keystones are often enlarged beyond the structural requirements and decorated. A variant in domes and crowning vaults is a lantern. A portion of the arch surrounding the keystone is called a crown. Keystones or their suggested form are sometimes placed for decorative effect in the centre of the flat top of doors, recesses and windows, so as to form an upward projection of a lintel, as a hallmark of strength or good architecture. Although a masonry arch or vault cannot be self-supporting until the keystone is placed, the keystone experiences the least stress of any of the voussoirs, due to its position at the apex. Old keystones can decay due to weathering and vibration, a condition known as bald arch.  Architecture  In a rib-vaulted ceiling, keystones commonly mark the intersections of any two or more arched ribs. For aesthetics, keystones are often larger than...
Architectural revivalism is the use of elements that echo the style of a previous architectural era that have or had fallen into disuse or abeyance between their heyday and period of revival. Revivalism, in a narrower sense, refers to the period of and movement within Western architectural history during which a succession of antecedent and reminiscent styles were taken to by architects, roughly from the mid-18th century, and which was itself succeeded by Modernism around the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Notable revival styles include Neoclassical architecture , and Gothic Revival . Revivalism is related to historicism. Western architecture of the 19th century, including Victorian architecture, is an example of Revivalism.  History   Mid-18th-early 20th centuries  The idea that architecture might represent the glory of kingdoms can be traced to the dawn of civilisation, but the notion that architecture can bear the stamp of national character is a modern idea, that appeared in the historical and philosophical writing of the 18th century and was given political currency in the wake of the French Revolution...
Anna University is a public state university located in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. The main campus is in Guindy. It was originally established on 4 September 1978 and is named after C. N. Annadurai, former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.  History and structure  Anna University comprises four colleges - the principal seat College of Engineering, Guindy , Alagappa College of Technology , Madras Institute of Technology and School of Architecture and Planning . The first version of Anna University was formed in 1978 by Chief Minister M. G. Ramachandran's Government and various governments changed the varsity's structure and affiliation scope repeatedly. In 2001, under the Anna University Amendment Act of 2001, the erstwhile Anna University became an affiliating university, taking under its wings all the engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu. This included six government engineering colleges, three government-aided private institutions, and 426 self-financed colleges. On 1 February 2007, as a result of a Government of Tamil Nadu decision, the university was split into six constituent universities...
The city of Paris has notable examples of architecture from the Middle Ages to the 21st century. It was the birthplace of the Gothic style, and has important monuments of the French Renaissance, Classical revival, the Flamboyant style of the reign of Napoleon III, the Belle poque, and the Art Nouveau style. The great Exposition Universelle and 1900 added Paris landmarks, including the Eiffel Tower and Grand Palais. In the 20th century, the Art Deco style of architecture first appeared in Paris, and Paris architects also influenced the postmodern architecture of the second half of the century.  Gallo-Roman architecture  Very little architecture remains from the ancient town of Lutetia, founded by a Celtic tribe known as the Parisii in about the 3rd century BC. It was conquered by the Romans in 52 BC, and turned into a Gallo-Roman garrison town. It was rebuilt in the 1st century AD on the classic Roman plan a north-south axis, or cardo  and an east-west axis, or decumanus, of which traces have been found on the le de la Cit, at rue de Lutce. The center of Roman administration was on the island the Roman governor's palace stood where the Palais...
Federation architecture is the architectural style in Australia that was prevalent from around 1890 to 1915. The name refers to the Federation of Australia on 1 January 1901, when the British colonies of Australia collectively became the Commonwealth of Australia. The architectural style had antecedents in the Queen Anne style and Edwardian style of the United Kingdom, combined with various other influences like the Arts and Crafts style. Other styles also developed, like the Federation Warehouse style, which was heavily influenced by the Romanesque Revival style. In Australia, Federation architecture is generally associated with cottages in the Queen Anne style, but some consider that there were twelve main styles that characterised the Federation period.  Definition and features  The Federation period overlaps the Edwardian period, which was so named after the reign of King Edward VII  however, as the style preceded and extended beyond Edward's reign, the term Federation architecture was coined in 1969. Federation architecture has many similarities to Edwardian Baroque architecture however, there are significant differences that distinguish the Federation architecture...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 791 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Git is a distributed version control system. Git, Gits or GIT may also refer to:  Language  Git , a pronoun in Old English Git , British and Irish slang for a contemptible person Gitxsan language  Entertainment  Git!, a 1965 American drama film Git Gay , Swedish actress and singer Feathers in the Wind, a 2005 South Korean film Ghost in the Shell, a Japanese media franchise  Music  Git , by Skeletons  The Girl-Faced Boys G.I.T.: Get It Together, a 1973 album by The Jackson 5 The Gits, a post punk band Git , by Candan Eretin G.I.T., an Argentine rock band GIT Award, a Liverpool music award  Mathematics, science and technology  Gastrointestinal tract Geographic information technology Geometric invariant theory Geoscientist In Training, a professional designation  Places  Git, Iran, a village Gits, Belgium, a village in West Flanders  Other uses  Gebze Institute of Technology, in Turkey Georgia Institute of Technology, a public research university in Atlanta, Georgia, United States Graphic Imaging Technology, an American digital archiving company GROWTH-India Telescope, India's first fully robotic research telescope Guitar...
Git is a term of insult denoting an unpleasant, silly, incompetent, annoying, senile, elderly, or childish person. As a mild oath it is roughly on a par with prat and marginally less pejorative than berk. Typically a good-natured admonition with a strong implication of familiarity, git is more severe than twit or idiot but less severe than wanker, arsehole or twat when offence is intended. The word git first appeared in print in 1946, but is undoubtedly older. It was popularly used by the British army in the First World War at Gallipoli, the Egyptian and Mesopotamian campaigns, where the British would abuse their Turkish adversaries by shouting the vulgar phrase Siktir git! Glckl. Fuck off! You smile-faced., mistakenly believing that git was part of the offensive expression. An alternative suggestion for the etymology is that it is an alteration of the word get, dating back to the 14th century. A shortening of beget, get insinuates that the recipient is someone's misbegotten offspring and therefore a bastard. In parts of northern England, Northern Ireland and Scotland get is still used in preference to git. The word has been ruled by the Speaker...
Git Up, Git Out is a song by the American hip-hop duo Outkast from their debut studio album Southernplayalisticadillacmuzik . A conscious Southern story-rap about the dangers of giving in to circumstances and not doing anything with one's life, the song features Cee-Lo and Big Gipp of Goodie Mob, the second appearance of any of Goodie Mob's members, after Call Of Da Wild. Produced by the Dungeon Family's own Organized Noize, the track is also featured in the 2006 film ATL, which also featured Big Boi, and was sampled in the 1998 hit Can I Get A... by Jay-Z feat. Ja Rule and Amil, during Amil's verse, and in Macy Gray's 1999 debut single Do Something.  Track listing  CD Single Git Up, Git Out - 7:27 Git Up, Git Out - 4:10 Git Up, Git Out - 4:05 Git Up, Git Out - 7:39 Git Up, Git Out - 7:36 12 Vinyl Single Git Up, Git Out - 7:27 Git Up, Git Out - 7:39 Git Up, Git Out - 4:05 Git Up, Git Out - 4:10 Git Up, Git Out - 7:36  Charts   References 
The Gits were an American punk rock band from Yellow Springs, Ohio, formed in 1986. The band was founded by vocalist Mia Zapata, guitarist Andy Kessler, bassist Matt Dresdner, and drummer Steve Moriarty. As part of the burgeoning Seattle music scene of the early 1990s, they were known for their fiery live performances, with Zapata earning particular praise for her powerful vocals. Establishing themselves as one of Seattle's most promising bands, the Gits had accepted an offer to be signed to Atlantic Records in June 1993. However, their career was cut short when Zapata was raped and murdered in July 1993, shortly before the band were about to embark on their first national tour. In response, the surviving members of the Gits formed the supergroup Evil Stig with Joan Jett, organized benefit concerts, and raised 70,000 to hire a private investigator to find Zapata's killer. The case went cold for nearly a decade due to lack of evidence, suspects, and witnesses, becoming one of the most notorious unsolved murders in Seattle history. After DNA evidence linked Jesus Mezquia to the crime in December 2002, he was arrested in Miami in January 2003, convicted of first degree felony murder...
Daniel Lawrence Whitney , known professionally as Larry the Cable Guy, is an American stand-up comedian, actor and former radio personality. He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour, a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall, Ron White, and Jeff Foxworthy with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV. Whitney has released seven comedy albums, two of which have been certified platinum by the RIAA for shipments of 1,000,000 copies and one of which has been certified gold for shipments of 500,000 copies. He has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour related films, alongside Larry the Cable Guy: Health Inspector, Delta Farce and Witless Protection, and provides the voice of Mater in DisneyPixar's Cars franchise. Whitney's catchphrase Git-R-Done! is also the title of his book.  Early life  Dan Whitney was born in Nebraska to Tom and Shirley Whitney, and grew up on an 80-acre farm outside Pawnee City, Nebraska. His father was a Christian minister. When he was 16, his family moved to West Palm Beach, Florida. Whitney attended high school at The King's Academy in West Palm Beach, Florida, from the late 1970s through 1980 where his father was...
I'm Gonna Git You Sucka is a 1988 American blaxploitation parody film written, directed by and starring Keenen Ivory Wayans in his directorial debut. Featured in the film are several noteworthy African-American actors who were part of the genre of blaxploitation: Jim Brown, Bernie Casey, Antonio Fargas and Isaac Hayes. It co-stars John Vernon, Kadeem Hardison, Ja'net Dubois, John Witherspoon, Damon Wayans, Clarence Williams III, Dawnn Lewis, and Chris Rock, and acts as the film debuts of comedian Robin Harris and brothers Shawn and Marlon Wayans. The film entered a limited theatrical release on December 14, 1988, before expanding to a wide release on January 11, 1989. It was commercially successful, grossing 13 million, and received mixed reviews from critics.  Plot  When soldier Jack Spade learns that his brother Junebug overdosed on gold chains and died, he returns to Any Ghetto, U.S.A, where he is met by his mother and sister-in-law, Cheryl. As he surveys the old neighborhood, Jack notices the impact that gold chains have had on his neighborhood and feels that not only should his brother's death be made right, but the entire neighborhood as well. He vows to destroy Mr. Big,...
G.I.T. originally, GIT, to resemble the English Word Hit is a supergroup of rock and new wave from Buenos Aires, Argentina, emerged in the early 1980s, composed of Pablo Guyot , Willy Iturri and Alfredo Toth .  History  The 3 musicians coincided for the first time in Ral Porchetto's band, serving as the instrumental basis for the best hits of the artist in the early 1980s. Charly Garca was dazzled with Porchetto's base and incorporated them into his solo band, recording with them 2 albums. The musicians had been asking for a space of their own for some time, so Charly granted and allowed them to form a band, which was called GIT acronym that comes from the initials of the last names of its members: Guyot, Iturri and Toth. Charly gave them a hand and was the producer of his self-titled debut album. Due to an unnoticed design error, the album cover features the acronym separated by dots, which is why in countries other than Argentina the band is known as G.I.T.. The album quickly became a success and GIT began its takeoff: it would become one of the emblematic bands of the golden age of Argentine rock, conquering Argentina...
This article documents the broad, wide version history of the Linux kernel, a free, open-source, and Unix-like kernel that is used on many computer systems and web servers worldwide. Since the Linux kernel's creation by Linus Torvalds in 1991, it had rapidly gained popularity as many developers started contributing to the project. The kernel became self-hosting as of version 0.11 in December 1991. The version 1.0.0 of the kernel was released on March 1994, which consisted of around 176,250 lines in the original unmodified source code. The most recent stable release of the Linux kernel is 7.2, which was released on 16 August 2026.  Explanation  In contrast to semantic versioning, the major version carries no intrinsic meaning for the kernel, as Linux promises stable interfaces and behavior even across major versions on all supported platforms. However, since version 3.x, minor versions have been capped around 20 to avoid the false perception that changes between large minor versions would be less voluminous, impactful, stable or have less features. Like, changes between smaller minor versions . Each feature release - identified by the...
Git! is a 1965 American drama film directed by Ellis Kadison and written by Homer McCoy. The film stars Jack Chaplain, Heather North, Leslie Bradley, Richard Webb, Hanna Landy and Emory Parnell. The film was released in October 1965, by Embassy Pictures.  Plot  Deke, a 17-year-old itinerant orphan from a boy's home, is arrested by the authorities after he stops Art Finney, a trainer for a wealthy California dog breeder, Andrew Garrett, from shooting Rock, a renegade English setter and alleged animal killer. Garrett has Deke remanded to his custody and gives him a job assisting an uncooperative Finney and also working with Rock, whom Deke asserts can become a fine hunting dog. Finney and Garrett don't agree, but gradually come round to accept his belief in Rock.  Cast  Jack Chaplain as Deke Heather North as Elaine Leslie Bradley as Finney Richard Webb as Andrew Garrett Hanna Landy as Mrs. Finney Emory Parnell as T.C. Knox Joseph Hamilton as Jed Richard Valentine as District Attorney Jeff Burton as Police Sergeant Sherry Moreland as Dr. Allan Shug Fisher as Sam Lewis  References   External links  Git! at IMDb
The Git Up is a song by American artist Blanco Brown, released as his debut single on May 3, 2019. It has been described as the sequel to Lil Nas 's Old Town Road and the next viral country rap song. Brown filmed himself performing a line dance to the song, which became a meme and was later used in its music video. It debuted at number 66 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at number 14. The Git Up serves as the lead single from Brown's debut album Honeysuckle  Lightning Bugs. A remix featuring singer Ciara was released on December 23, 2019, containing an altered, booming beat.  Background  Brown described the initial version of the track as similar to Achy Breaky Heart which Billy Ray Cyrus featured in the remix of Old Town Road, influencing the dance element as he felt You couldn't take the song serious, but then you can't make the song a joke either, because it was a smash. The release of the similar Old Town Road had a direct effect on the release of the song, as initially it was supposed to be like a filler from his EP. However, after learning of Old Town Road, Brown called his label's vice president telling him they needed to release the song...
Git Fresh is an American RB and hip hop group based in Miami, Florida. They are currently signed to Island Def Jam. The group was initially composed of Rude Boi, Pretty Sly, Penny, and Mike Ezay.  History   Early years: DeepSide  The group started out and formed when all the members were in their teenage years, singing at talent shows and parties around the city. With the exception of Pretty Sly, who went to school in Miami, they all went to Dillard Performing Arts School. Rude Boi met Sly at a local talent show in Miami and introduced him to Mike and Penny. There was an immediate chemistry between the guys and they officially formed the group, DeepSide. Formerly signed to Jive Records, the group known as DeepSide changed their name after splitting from the label, and all old ties.  Git Fresh  The group changed their name from DeepSide to Git Fresh in 2008. They also changed record labels from Jive to Def Jam. Singers Brent Penny Pendergast and Mike Ezay Espinosa later reportedly left the group. As of 2012, it was uncertain if the two remaining members would continue as a group.  Discography  2002: DeepSide 2008: Git Fresh 2011: Eat...
TortoiseGit is a Git revision control client, implemented as a Windows shell extension and based on TortoiseSVN. It is free software released under the GNU General Public License. In Windows Explorer, besides showing context menu items for Git commands, TortoiseGit provides icon overlays that indicate the status of Git working trees and files. It also comes with the TortoiseGitMerge utility to visually compare two files and resolve conflicts.  See also  TortoiseCVS, a Concurrent Versions System client for the Microsoft Windows platform TortoiseSVN, a Subversion client for the Microsoft Windows platform TortoiseHg, a Mercurial client that can also be used as a client to a Git server TortoiseBzr, a similar tool for use with Bazaar  References   External links  Official website
GitKraken is a software company based in Scottsdale, Arizona. Founded in 2000, the company was purchased in 2020 by Resurgens Technology Partners, and changed its name from Axosoft to GitKraken in 2021.  GitKraken  The company's eponymous proprietary product GitKraken encompasses a wide range of DevEx tools. The GitKraken DevEx platform includes tools like: GitKraken Git GUI, a Git client available on Mac, Windows, and Linux, GitLens for VS Code, Git Integration for Jira, GitKraken.dev, GitKraken Browser Extension, and more.  Axosoft  The Axosoft product is a proprietary project management and bug tracking system developed by GitKraken. The system is available as hosted or on-premises software. The software allows project managers and developers to see each task, requirement, defect and incident in the system on individual filing cards through the Scrum planning board. Axosoft operates as a web application and can integrate with Microsoft Visual Studio and TortoiseSVN.  References   External links  Official website
Windows is a proprietary operating system developed by Microsoft. Windows is grouped into families that cater to particular sectors of the computing industry - Windows for personal computers, Windows Server for servers, and Windows IoT for embedded systems. Windows itself is further grouped into editions that cater to different users - Home for home users, Professional for advanced users, Education for schools, and Enterprise for corporations. Windows is sold both as a consumer retail product and to computer manufacturers, who bundle and distribute it with their systems. The first version of Windows, Windows 1.0, was released on November 20, 1985 as a graphical operating system shell for MS-DOS in response to growing interest in graphical user interfaces . The name Windows is a reference to the windowing system in GUIs. The 1990 release of Windows 3.0 catapulted its market success and led to the launch of various other product families, including the Windows Mobile, Windows Phone, and Windows CEEmbedded Compact. Windows is the most popular desktop operating system in the world, with a 63 market share as of August 2026, and the second-most popular operating system...
CodePlex was a forge website by Microsoft. While it was active, it allowed shared development of open-source software. Its features included wiki pages, source control based on Mercurial, TFVC, Subversion, or Git, discussion forums, issue tracking, project tagging, RSS support, statistics, and releases. While CodePlex once encompassed a wide variety of projects, including SQL Server, WPF, and Windows Forms-related projects, its major activities were focused on .NET Framework and SharePoint. The most prominent and used project that was born inside CodePlex, the AJA Control Toolkit, is a joint project between the community and Microsoft.  History  The initial beta started in May 2006, with the final release a month later in June. A new version of the website was released every three weeks adding additional features and updates. In 2010, an unrelated CodePlex Foundation was renamed Outercurve Foundation to clear up confusion that there was a direct relationship between the foundation and CodePlex, which is solely owned and run by Microsoft. Since January 22, 2010, Mercurial distributed source control system has been supported as well, and this support has been...
In algebraic geometry, an affine GIT quotient, or affine geometric invariant theory quotient, of an affine scheme   Spec  A displaystyle operatorname Spec A with an action by a group scheme G is the affine scheme Spec   A G  displaystyle operatorname Spec  , the prime spectrum of the ring of invariants of A, and is denoted by    G displaystyle !G . A GIT quotient is a categorical quotient: any invariant morphism uniquely factors through it. Taking Proj instead of Spec displaystyle operatorname Spec  , one obtains a projective GIT quotient which is a quotient of the set of semistable points. A GIT quotient is a categorical quotient of the locus of semistable points i.e., the quotient of the semistable locus. Since the categorical quotient is unique, if there is...
Showbiz Korea is a daily television entertainment news show that covers the South Korean entertainment industry broadcast in South Korea and throughout Asia on Arirang TV, which premiered on April 10, 2002. The show is produced in Korea, but broadcast in the English language. It's also available on Viki with subtitles in multiple languages. The show features segments that include Showbiz Today about the latest issues facing the Korean entertainment industry K-Chitchat that features a panel of experts discussing the latest Korean entertainment issues Stars' Big Match that highlights stars gaining worldwide fame Fashion 101 that explores fashion and beauty trends of Korean celebrities' Issue Makers that spotlights stars in the news this week Film Digest that features the latest movie releases and On Scene that takes you on filming sets, press conferences and showcases.  Hosts  Lina Kwon, Brian Joo, Austin Kang, Adrien Lee, Jasper Cho  References   External links  About The Program  Showbiz Korea Official
Francis Ng Tolentino Tagalog pronunciation: , born January 3, 1960 is a Filipino politician and lawyer serving as the acting secretary of labor and employment since 2026. He previously served as a senator of the Philippines from 2019 to 2025 during his term in the Senate, he served as the Senate majority leader from 2024 to 2025 and chairperson of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee from 2022 to 2023. Before being elected to the Senate, he served as the chairperson of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority from 2010 to 2015 and mayor of Tagaytay twice: from 1986 to 1987 as an officer in charge in the provisional government, and then elected to three consecutive terms from 1995 to 2004. Tolentino is the principal author of the Senate bill that became the Philippine Maritime Zones Act. This law, which concerns the Philippines' claims in the South China Sea dispute, has been objected by China. As a result, China banned him from entering the country since July 2025.  Education  Francis Tolentino had his primary education in Lourdes School of Mandaluyong. He studied rigorously and obtained his Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy and Bachelor of Laws degree...
Irvine Alan Stewart Laidlaw, Baron Laidlaw is a Scottish businessman, and a former member of the House of Lords. In the Sunday Times Rich List 2012 ranking of the wealthiest people in the UK he was placed 105th with an estimated fortune of 745 million. In the 2020 edition, he was ranked the 180th wealthiest person in the UK, with an estimated net worth of 787 million, a decrease of 4 million from the previous year.  Biography  The son of Margaret and Roy Laidlaw, a Banffshire mill-owner, Laidlaw was educated at Merchiston Castle School, Leeds University and New York City's Columbia Business School. After graduation, Laidlaw turned a small US publishing company bought in 1973 into the Institute for International Research , the world's largest conference organiser. After calling off a 500m flotation in 2001 when the market plunged, he sold IIR in 2005 for a sum believed to be in the order of 768m. In 1988 Laidlaw founded Abbey Business Centres, a subsidiary of IIR providing serviced office space, meeting room facilities and virtual office packages in 13 business centres in Great Britain. The first business centre opened in Glasgow, and soon the company...
WonderKing Online is a free-of-charge, 2D, side-scrolling massively multiplayer online role-playing game created by the South Korean company ToWinGames.  Gameplay  WonderKing was a MMORPG which centered on venturing throughout an expansive world, fighting various monsters in real-time combat, in a style similar to side-scrolling adventure platform games from the 32-bit genre. The players fought monsters and completed quests, in the process acquiring in-game currency called Zed, experience points , and various items. Players could kill monsters alone or form a party with up to five total characters. Loot was shared based on relative damage and level of characters in the party, with more awarded to higher level members. WonderKing used a 2D scrolling viewpoint similar to a platform game. The controls for the game were executed using the keyboard and mouse. The keyboard was used for many game functions, and much of it could be rearranged to suit users' needs. The mouse was mainly used to trigger non-player characters and manipulate items. WonderKing characters existed in servers. Players were allowed to create up to 3 characters in each...
The Stoewer R 140 is a small car manufactured by Stoewer automotive company between 1932 and 1935 the name was changed to R 150 in 1934 and R 180 for the last year of production, to reflect larger engines being fitted. It has front-wheel drive, continuing the layout from the earlier V 5, albeit with a more traditional, inline engine as the predecessor's V4 had met with buyer resistance. The R 140 roadster retained the V 5's wheelbase but the chassis of the sedan and cabriolet gained 25 cm . While a developmental dead end, the R-series cars helped keep Stoewer afloat during the Depression years.  History  The Stoewer R 140 replaced the earlier V 5. It was manufactured in Stettin, Germany by Stoewer automotive company. About 1100 cars of the initial design were made in 1932 and 1933. During 1933, the engine was enlarged to 1.5 litres maximum power was unchanged, as was the R 140 name and the saloon switched to a four-door layout 1210 examples were made. In 1934, the engine was upgraded and it was renamed the R 150, aligning the name with the displacement production continued into 1935 and 1150 were made. In 1935, the car was made...
John P R Blakely is an English pianist and piano teacher at the Royal College of Music with an international reputation as a chamber musician and accompanist. Born the son of a medical doctor, he was educated at Highgate School until 1964 and proceeded to study at the Royal Academy of Music, winning all the relevant major prizes. He then won a Nettleship music scholarship to Balliol College, Oxford. In 1987, Blakely accompanied tenor Neil Mackie in the world premiere of Kenneth Leighton's song cycle Earth, Sweet Earth. He has recorded seven CDs, including Beethoven's Spring Sonata with Lorraine McAslan, which was declared 'first choice' of all available versions by BBC Radio 3's CD Review. His many pupils have included Alisdair Hogarth who said that John was brilliant and was a master of helping you completely get your head around an issue in a piece by summing it up in one sentence.  References 
Aline Chassriau is an 1835 oil-on-canvas painting by French romantic artist Thodore Chassriau, which represents Aline Chassriau , the painter's younger sister. Once owned by the artist's brother Frdric, it was given to the Muse du Louvre by Baron Arthur Chassriau and his wife in 1918. Aline Chassriau posed for this portrait when she was thirteen years of age, and the painter sixteen. In a nearly monochromatic design, Aline is depicted standing in front of a dark background. She wears a brown cloak with a white collar, and looks directly at the viewer with her hands crossed before her. The expression is somber, the handling of light assured. The refined technique of the portrait was influenced by Ingres, with whom Chassriau had recently studied, and Italian Renaissance masters Raphael and Bronzino. It had long been thought that the model for this painting was Chassriau's older sister Adle, but pencil drawings of Aline, as well as renewed attention to the visual evidence-the subject is adolescent, and Adle was twenty-five at the time-have corrected the misconception. Chassriau frequently used his siblings, especially his sisters, as models...
The following is a list of major islands of South Korea arranged by body of water and then by province. South Korea is mostly surrounded by water and has 2,413 kilometres of coast line along three seas to the west is the Yellow Sea called Sohae Korean:  Hanja:  in South Korea, literally means west sea, to the south is the East China Sea, and to the east is the East Sea called Donghae Korean:  Hanja:  in South Korea, literally means east sea. Geographically, South Korea's landmass is approximately 100,032 square kilometres . South Korea occupies the southern portion of the Korean Peninsula, and has more islands than North Korea. Most of the islands of South Korea are on its west and south coasts. Jeonnam-Gwangju has the most islands among South Korea and Korean peninsula. Other well known islands of South Korea are Jeju Island, Dokdo, Geojedo, Marado, and Heuksando for tourism. In accordance with the Constitution of South Korea, all of the islands controlled by the DPRK are wholly claimed by the ROK. Generally, name of islands of South Korea have do or seom at the end of the word. These notable two words mean island or islet in Korean...
This list of tallest buildings in Cologne ranks high-rise buildings and free standing structures that reach a height of 50 meters without superstructures. When it was completed in 1925, the Hansahochhaus was the tallest skyscraper in Europe for a short time. Currently, the tallest skyscraper in Cologne is the Klnturm. The tallest structure in Cologne is the Colonius telecommunications tower at 266 m , followed by Cologne Cathedral at 157.38 m . The criterion for skyscrapers is usually a height of 150 meters or more. So far, none of Cologne's high-rise buildings have reached this mark the tallest skyscraper in North Rhine-Westphalia is the 162.5 m tall Post Tower in neighboring Bonn.  Under construction   Proposed   Demolished   See also  List of tallest buildings in Germany List of tallest structures in Germany  References   External links  Cologne skyscrapers at SkyscraperPage.com
Goulceby is a village and civil parish in the East Lindsey district of Lincolnshire, England. It is situated 7 miles south-west from the market town of Louth, and lies in the Lincolnshire Wolds, an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. Goulceby village is conjoined with the hamlet of Asterby, both marked on local road signs as one settlement, Goulceby with Asterby, although the two form separate civil parishes. Goulceby was the birthplace of William Marwood, hangman, who invented the long drop system of execution.  Community  Until 2012 local democracy took the form of the 'Asterby, Goulceby  Ranby Grouped Parish Council', but at the request of the people of Ranby, it was split to form the 'Asterby  Goulceby Parish Council' and the 'Ranby Parish Meeting'. The Ecclesiastical parishes are also still separate, as Asterby, Goulceby and Ranby. All three are part of the Asterby group of the Deanery of Horncastle.  References   External links  Media related to Goulceby at Wikimedia Commons
The Purdue Boilermakers baseball team was a baseball team that represented Purdue University in the 2023 NCAA Division I baseball season. The Boilermakers were members of the Big Ten Conference and played their home games at Alexander Field in West Lafayette, Indiana. They were led by fourth-year head coach Greg Goff.  Previous season  The Boilermakers finished the 2022 NCAA Division I baseball season 29-21 overall and seventh place in the conference standings, qualifying for the 2022 Big Ten Conference Baseball Tournament, where they were eliminated after going 0-2.  Preseason  Following the season, Daniel Furuto left to take a position with Abilene Christian, but Purdue did not replace him.  Roster   Schedule   Awards   Big Ten Conference Players of the Week   Conference awards   References 
This is a list of House of Assembly results for the 1965 South Australian state election.  Results by electoral district   Adelaide   Albert   Alexandra   Angas   Barossa   Burnside   Burra   Chaffey   Edwardstown   Enfield   Eyre   Flinders   Frome   Gawler   Glenelg   Gouger   Gumeracha   Hindmarsh   Light   Millicent   Mitcham   Mount Gambier   Murray   Norwood   Onkaparinga   Port Adelaide   Port Pirie   Ridley   Rocky River   Semaphore   Stirling   Stuart   Torrens   Unley   Victoria   Wallaroo   West Torrens   Whyalla   Yorke Peninsula   See also  Members of the South Australian House of Assembly, 1965-1968 Candidates of the 1965 South Australian state election  References 
Tony Sokol born March 23, 1963, in Brooklyn, New York, United States is an American playwright, writer and composer, best known for writing the theatrical horror series La Commedia Del Sangue: Vampyr Theatre in New York City. As a musician, Sokol played guitar, bass or sang in Queer Jesus, The Others, Busted Chops, Head First, 4Q, Death of the Party and the Abstract 4. He appeared several times on WBAI-FM with jazz vocalist Devorah Simpson, as well as backing her on live sessions on the station on guitar and with his band. Sokol wrote incidental music for the films Woman, Man, Gun and Hide Me, both directed by Jenice Malecki The Gauntlet and Quest, directed by David Burgos plus Zaritsas: Russian Women in New York, directed by Elena Beloff. He wrote songs and incidental music for over a dozen films and over twenty stage productions and appeared on the Joan Rivers Show, Strange Universe, WNEW-FM, WBAI-FM, WABC-AM, WFUV-FM, WFMU-FM, BBC-Television and Radio, Britain's The Girlie Show, bars and nightclubs throughout the tri-state area and over a dozen Manhattan Public-access television TV shows. He also wrote, produced and occasionally directed or acted in the stageshow Vampyr...
The Feather Hill Zoo or Feather Hill Ranch Zoo was a private animal collection in Montecito, California, owned by Christian R. Holmes from 1924 to 1930. Featherhill Ranch was located on East Valley Road astride Romero Creek. Originally a poultry farm, the ranch rapidly established a large collection of birds and animals to attract customers.  History  In April 1924, Holmes began buying the parcels that became the Feather Hill Ranch as part of a plan to make money raising chickens. The display collection began with exotic birds shown at the Ventura County Fair in fall 1924. In 1925 the 62-acre ranch had 12,000 free-range White Leghorns, kept Rhode Island Reds and Light Brahmas for sale as capons, and offered holiday turkeys. The ranch also had Japanese silkie bantam chickens, Buff Cochin bantams, White King pigeons, several varieties of pheasants, twelve varieties of doves, and several hundred finches, canaries, and other small birds, and ostriches. The zoo was open to the public on weekends when families could visit and also stock up on chicken for the week's meals and every weekday except Monday. The animal collection included foxes, ringtail...
Ernest Bromley was an American minister, Quaker and civil rights and peace activist. A founding member of the Freedom Riders, he played an active role in protests of racial segregation in the Southern United States. He also organized rallies in Cincinnati which protested the Vietnam War and segregation. Bromley was also a pioneer of the modern American tax resistance movement. In 1942 he refused to display a defense tax stamp on his car. He redirected the 7.09 cost of the stamp that would have gone to the war effort and gave it instead to Methodist overseas relief. He was jailed for 60 days and lost his position as minister. He married Marion Bromley in 1948. He produced and edited a local newsletter called Peacemaker for many years. Peacemakers was the name of an organization that he and his wife Marion helped found that encouraged pacifism and resistance to war taxes and the draft. Peacemakers developed a fund for families of people imprisoned for acts of conscience. In the 1970s the Internal Revenue Service tried and failed to seize their home for non-payment of taxes. In 1977 the War Resisters League gave the Bromleys its annual Peace...
199 Lives: The Travis Pastrana Story is a 2008 documentary film about the life of off-road racing legend Travis Pastrana by ESPN films. In fall of 2009, 199 Lives was released on DVD and made available for download via Microsoft's box Live Video Marketplace.  References   External links  199 Lives: The Travis Pastrana Story at IMDb
Victor Valley High School is located in Victorville, California, United States. It is the oldest high school in the Victor Valley Union High School District . The original campus was located at the former Victor Valley Junior High and University Preparatory School on Forrest Avenue in Old Town Victorville, until the current campus was built in 1952. It was the first of two high schools in Victorville, with the second being Silverado High School, completed in 1996. Visible from the homeside of Ray Moore Stadium is the Victorville V, which was placed on a hill as a landmark for the original location of the High School on Forrest Ave. Keith Gunn, then high school football coach and later principal, spearheaded the project in the 1930s, with the cement being donated by Southwestern Portland Cement Company. The Keith Gunn Gymnasium is named in his honor, while the floor is dedicated to basketball coach Ollie Butler. The grassy area in the middle courtyard of the school is the Senior Lawn, where only seniors are allowed. The courtyard is painted every year by the seniors to reflect their class.  Athletics  Victor Valley High School fields several teams in the Desert Sky...
Lonea Coal Mine is an underground mining exploitation, one of the largest in Romania located in Petrila, one of six cities in the Jiu Valley region of Hunedoara County. The legal entity managing the Lonea mine is the National Hard Coal Company which was set up in 1998. The mine has reserves of 22.7 million tonnes of coal. The coal mine is due to be closed by the end of 2024.  See also  Jiu Valley League of Miners Unions of the Jiu Valley  External links  Coal mines and coal mining in Jiu Valley  References 
Abd al-Razzaq Beg Donboli Persian:    176263-182728 was an Iranian literary biographer, poet, and historian active during the early Qajar era. He belonged to the Donboli, a Turkic-speaking Kurdish tribe, which played a leading role in the areas of Khoy and Salmas in Azerbaijan, northern Iran.  References   Sources  Perry, J. R. . Abd-al-Razzq Beg. In Yarshater, Ehsan . Encyclopdia Iranica. Vol. I2: Abd-al-Hamd-Abd-al-Hamd. London and New York: Routledge  Kegan Paul. p. 154. ISBN 978-0-71009-091-1. Werner, Christoph . Abd al-Razzq Beg Dunbul. In Fleet, Kate Krmer, Gudrun Matringe, Denis Nawas, John Rowson, Everett . Encyclopaedia of Islam . Brill Online. ISSN 1873-9830.  Further reading  Rizvi, Sajjad . Whatever happened to the School of Isfahan?: Philosophy in 18th-Century Iran. In Axworthy, Michael . Crisis, Collapse, Militarism and Civil War: The History and Historiography of 18th Century Iran. Oxford University Press. pp. 71-104. ISBN 978-0190250331.
Multiple linear regression, also known as multivariable linear regression, is a generalization of simple linear regression to the case of more than one independent variable. The basic model for multiple linear regression is Y i   0   1  i 1   2  i 2     p  i p   i displaystyle Yibeta 0beta 1i1beta 2i2ldots beta pipepsilon i for each observation i  1 ,  , n textstyle...
The theory of relativity comprises two physics theories by Albert Einstein: special relativity and general relativity, proposed and published in 1905 and 1915, respectively. Special relativity applies to all physical phenomena in the absence of gravity. General relativity explains the law of gravitation and its relation to the forces of nature. It applies to the cosmological and astrophysical realm, including astronomy. The theory transformed theoretical physics and astronomy during the 20th century, superseding a 200-year-old theory of mechanics created primarily by Isaac Newton. It introduced concepts including 4-dimensional spacetime as a unified entity of space and time, relativity of simultaneity, kinematic and gravitational time dilation, and length contraction. In the field of physics, relativity improved the science of elementary particles and their fundamental interactions, along with ushering in the nuclear age. With relativity, cosmology and astrophysics predicted extraordinary astronomical phenomena such as neutron stars, black holes, and gravitational waves.  Development and acceptance  Albert Einstein published the theory of special relativity in 1905, building on...
In science, a field or field quantity is a physical quantity - represented by a scalar, vector, spinor, or tensor - that has a value for each point in space and time. An example of a scalar field is a weather map of surface temperatures, described by assigning a number to each point on the map. A map of surface winds, assigning an arrow to each point on a map that describes the wind speed and direction at that point, is an example of a vector field. Strain tensor, representing the deformation of matter caused by stress, is an example of a tensor field. Field theories, mathematical descriptions of how field values change in space and time, are ubiquitous in physics. For instance, the electric field is another vector field, while electrodynamics can be formulated in terms of two interacting vector fields at each point in spacetime, or as a single rank-2 tensor field. In the modern framework of the quantum field theory, even without referring to a test particle, a field occupies space, contains energy, and its presence precludes a classical true vacuum. This has led physicists to consider electromagnetic fields to be a physical entity, making the field concept a supporting paradigm of...
Computational physics is the study and implementation of numerical analysis to solve problems in physics. Historically, computational physics was the first application of modern computers in science, and is now a subset of computational science. It is sometimes regarded as a subdiscipline of theoretical physics, but others consider it an intermediate branch between theoretical and experimental physics - an area of study which supplements both theory and experiment.  Overview  In physics, different theories based on mathematical models provide very precise predictions on how systems behave. Unfortunately, it is often the case that solving the mathematical model for a particular system in order to produce a useful prediction is not feasible. This can occur, for instance, when the solution does not have a closed-form expression, or is too complicated. In such cases, numerical approximations are required. Computational physics is the subject that deals with these numerical approximations: the approximation of the solution is written as a finite number of simple mathematical operations , and a computer is used to perform these operations...
A physics engine is computer software that provides an approximate simulation of certain physical systems, typically classical dynamics, including rigid body dynamics , soft body dynamics, and fluid dynamics. It is of use in the domains of computer graphics, video games and film . Their main uses are in video games , in which case the simulations are in real-time. The term is sometimes used more generally to describe any software system for simulating physical phenomena, such as high-performance scientific simulation.  Description  There are generally two classes of physics engines: real-time and high-precision. High-precision physics engines require more processing power to calculate very precise physics and are usually used by scientists and prerendered computer animation, such as movies. Real-time physics engines-as used in video games and other forms of interactive computing-use simplified calculations and decreased accuracy to compute in time for the game to respond at an appropriate rate for game play. A physics engine is essentially a big calculator that does mathematics needed to simulate physics.  Scientific... 
The Higgs boson, sometimes called the Higgs particle, is an elementary particle in the Standard Model of particle physics produced by the quantum excitation of the Higgs field, one of the fields in particle physics theory. In the Standard Model, the Higgs particle is a massive scalar boson that couples to particles whose mass arises from their interactions with the Higgs field, has zero spin, even parity, no electric charge, and no color charge. It is also very unstable, decaying into other particles almost immediately upon generation. The Higgs field is a scalar field with two neutral and two electrically charged components that form a complex doublet of the weak isospin SU symmetry. Its sombrero potential leads it to take a nonzero value everywhere , which breaks the weak isospin symmetry of the electroweak interaction and, via the Higgs mechanism, gives a rest mass to all massive elementary particles of the Standard Model, including the Higgs boson itself. The existence of the Higgs field became the last unverified part of the Standard Model of particle physics, and for several decades was considered the central problem...
Atomic physics is the field of physics that studies atoms as an isolated system of electrons and an atomic nucleus. Atomic physics typically refers to the study of atomic structure and the interaction between atoms. It is primarily concerned with the way in which electrons are arranged around the nucleus and the processes by which these arrangements change. This comprises ions, neutral atoms and, unless otherwise stated, it can be assumed that the term atom includes ions. The term atomic physics can be associated with nuclear power and nuclear weapons, due to the synonymous use of atomic and nuclear in standard English. Physicists distinguish between atomic physics-which deals with the atom as a system consisting of a nucleus and electrons-and nuclear physics, which studies nuclear reactions and special properties of atomic nuclei. As with many scientific fields, strict delineation can be highly contrived and atomic physics is often considered in the wider context of atomic, molecular, and optical physics. As a result, atomic physics research groups are usually classified as such.  Isolated atoms  Atomic physics primarily considers atoms in isolation. Atomic models will consist...
A symmetry of a physical system is a physical or mathematical feature of the system that is preserved or remains unchanged under some transformation. A family of particular transformations may be continuous or discrete e.g., reflection of a bilaterally symmetric figure, or rotation of a regular polygon. Continuous and discrete transformations give rise to corresponding types of symmetries. Mathematically, symmetries are described by symmetry groups continuous symmetries can be described by Lie groups while discrete symmetries are described by finite groups, lattice groups or other discrete groups. Symmetries are frequently amenable to mathematical formulations such as group representations. Symmetries can be exploited to simplify many problems in physics and explain physical phenomena such as conservation laws, but symmetry principles also play a foundational role in all of the fundamental theories of modern physics. One of the most important examples of symmetry in physics is that the speed of light has the same value in all frames of reference, which is described in special relativity by a group of transformations of the...
In physics, there are equations in every field to relate physical quantities to each other and perform calculations. Entire handbooks of equations can only summarize most of the full subject, else are highly specialized within a certain field. Physics is derived of formulae only.  General scope  Variables commonly used in physics Continuity equation Constitutive equation  Specific scope  Defining equation List of equations in classical mechanics Table of thermodynamic equations List of equations in wave theory List of relativistic equations List of equations in fluid mechanics List of electromagnetism equations List of equations in gravitation List of photonics equations List of equations in quantum mechanics List of equations in nuclear and particle physics  See also  List of equations Operator Laws of science  Units and nomenclature  Physical constant Physical quantity SI units SI derived unit SI electromagnetism units List of common physics notations
In physics, gravity , also known as gravitation or a gravitational interaction, is a fundamental interaction, which may be described as the force that draws material objects towards each other. The gravitational attraction between clouds of primordial hydrogen and clumps of dark matter in the early universe caused the hydrogen gas to coalesce, eventually condensing and fusing to form stars. At larger scales this resulted in galaxies and clusters, so gravity is a primary driver for the large-scale structures in the universe. Gravity has an infinite range, although its effects become weaker as objects get farther away. Gravity is described by the general theory of relativity, proposed by Albert Einstein in 1915, which describes gravity in terms of the curvature of spacetime, caused by the uneven distribution of mass. The most extreme example of this curvature of spacetime is a black hole, from which nothing-not even light-can escape once past the black hole's event horizon. However, for most applications, gravity is sufficiently well approximated by Newton's law of universal gravitation, which describes gravity as an attractive force between any two bodies...
In philosophy, the philosophy of physics deals with conceptual and interpretational issues in physics, many of which overlap with research done by certain kinds of theoretical physicists. Historically, philosophers of physics have engaged with questions such as the nature of space, time, matter and the laws that govern their interactions, as well as the epistemological and ontological basis of the theories used by practicing physicists. The discipline draws upon insights from various areas of philosophy, including metaphysics, epistemology, and philosophy of science, while also engaging with the latest developments in theoretical and experimental physics. Contemporary work focuses on issues at the foundations of the three pillars of modern physics: Quantum mechanics: Interpretations of quantum theory, including the nature of quantum states, the measurement problem, and the role of observers. Implications of entanglement, nonlocality, and the quantum-classical relationship are also explored. Relativity: Conceptual foundations of special and general relativity, including the nature of spacetime, simultaneity, causality, and determinism. Compatibility with quantum mechanics, gravitational...
Richard Phillips Feynman was an American theoretical physicist. He shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physics with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichir Tomonaga for their fundamental work in quantum electrodynamics , with deep-ploughing consequences for the physics of elementary particles. He is also known for his work in the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, and the parton model. Feynman developed a pictorial representation scheme for the mathematical expressions describing the behavior of subatomic particles, which later became known as Feynman diagrams and remains widely used. He assisted in the development of the atomic bomb during World War II and became known to the wider public in the 1980s as a member of the Rogers Commission, the panel that investigated the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. Along with his work in theoretical physics, Feynman has been credited with having pioneered the field of quantum computing and introducing the concept of nanotechnology. He held the Richard C. Tolman professorship in theoretical physics at the California Institute...
The Physics Ancient Greek:  , romanized: Physiks akrasis, or:  , Physiks akroses Latin: Physica or Naturales Auscultationes, possibly meaning Lectures on nature is an ancient Greek text collated from a collection of surviving manuscripts known as the Corpus Aristotelicum and attributed to the 4th-century BC philosopher Aristotle.  The meaning of physics in Aristotle  It is a collection of treatises or lessons that deals with the most general principles of natural or moving things, both living and non-living, rather than physical theories or investigations of the particular contents of the universe. The chief purpose of the work is to discover the principles and causes of change, or movement, or motion , especially that of natural wholes mostly living things, but also inanimate wholes like the cosmos. In the conventional Andronicean ordering of Aristotle's works, it stands at the head of, as well as being foundational to, the long series of physical, cosmological and biological treatises, whose ancient Greek title,  , means the on nature...
Natural science or empirical science is a branch of science concerned with the description, understanding, and prediction of natural phenomena, based on empirical evidence from observation and experimentation. Mechanisms such as peer review and reproducibility of findings are used to try to ensure the validity of scientific advances. Natural science can be divided into two main branches: life science and physical science. Life science is alternatively known as biology. Physical science is subdivided into physics, astronomy, Earth science, and chemistry. These branches of natural science may be further divided into more specialized branches, also known as fields. As empirical sciences, natural sciences use tools from the formal sciences, such as mathematics and logic, converting information about nature into measurements that can be explained as clear statements of the laws of nature. Modern natural science succeeded more classical approaches to natural philosophy. Galileo Galilei, Johannes Kepler, Ren Descartes, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton debated the benefits of a more mathematical as against a more experimental method in investigating nature. Still, philosophical perspectives...
In physics, electromagnetism is an interaction that occurs between particles with electric charge via electromagnetic fields. The electromagnetic force is one of the four fundamental forces of nature. It is the dominant force in the interactions of atoms and molecules. Electromagnetism describes and relates the three distinct but closely intertwined phenomena of electricity, magnetism, and optics. In the study of electromagnetism these phenomena are described by the 3 sub-disciplines: electrostatics, magnetostatics, and electrodynamics. The electromagnetic force is responsible for many chemical and physical phenomena observed in daily life. The electrostatic attraction between atomic nuclei and their electrons holds atoms together. Electric forces also allow different atoms to combine into molecules. Meanwhile, magnetic interactions between the spin and angular momentum magnetic moments of electrons also play a role in chemical reactivity such relationships are studied in spin chemistry. Electromagnetism also plays several crucial roles in modern technology: electrical energy production, transformation and distribution light, heat, and sound production and detection fiber optic...
A chiral phenomenon is one that is not identical to its mirror image see the article on mathematical chirality. The spin of a particle may be used to define a handedness, or helicity, for that particle, which, in the case of a massless particle, is the same as chirality. A symmetry transformation between the two is called parity transformation. Invariance under parity transformation by a Dirac fermion is called chiral symmetry.  Chirality and helicity  The helicity of a particle is positive if the direction of its spin is the same as the direction of its motion. It is negative if the directions of spin and motion are opposite. So a standard clock, with its spin vector defined by the rotation of its hands, has left-handed helicity if tossed with its face directed forwards. The same standard clock if tossed upwards would be considered to have left-handed helicity while going up and right-handed helicity while falling back . Mathematically, helicity is the sign of the projection of the spin vector onto the momentum vector: left is negative, right is positive. The chirality of a particle is more abstract...
Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist best known for developing the theory of relativity. Einstein also made important contributions to quantum theory. His mass-energy equivalence formula E  mc2, which arises from special relativity, has been called the world's most famous equation. He received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect. Born as a subject to the Kingdom of Wrttemberg, part of the German Empire, Einstein moved to Switzerland in 1895, forsaking his citizenship the following year. In 1896, at the age of seventeen, he enrolled in the mathematics and physics teaching diploma program at the Swiss federal polytechnic school in Zurich, graduating in 1900. He acquired Swiss citizenship a year later, which he kept for the rest of his life, and afterwards secured a permanent position at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern. In 1905, he submitted a successful PhD dissertation to the University of Zurich. In 1914, he moved to Berlin to join the Prussian Academy of Sciences and the Humboldt University of Berlin, becoming director...
Energy 'activity' is the quantitative property that is transferred to a body or to a physical system, recognizable in the capacity to do work and in the form of heat and light. Energy is a conserved quantity-the law of conservation of energy states that energy can be converted in form, but not created or destroyed. The unit of measurement for energy in the International System of Units is the joule . Forms of energy include the kinetic energy of a moving object, the potential energy stored by an object for instance due to its position in a field, the elastic energy stored in a solid object, chemical energy associated with chemical reactions, the radiant energy carried by electromagnetic radiation, the internal energy contained within a thermodynamic system, and rest energy associated with an object's rest mass. These are not mutually exclusive. All living organisms constantly take in and release energy. The Earth's climate and ecosystems processes are driven primarily by radiant energy from the Sun.  Forms  The total energy of a system can be subdivided and classified into potential energy, kinetic energy, or combinations of the...
Experimental physics is the category of disciplines and sub-disciplines in the field of physics that are concerned with the observation of physical phenomena and experiments. Methods vary from discipline to discipline, from simple experiments and observations, such as experiments by Galileo Galilei, to more complicated ones, such as the Large Hadron Collider.  Overview  Experimental physics is a branch of physics that is concerned with data acquisition, data-acquisition methods, and the detailed conceptualization and realization of laboratory experiments. It is often contrasted with theoretical physics, which is more concerned with predicting and explaining the physical behaviour of nature than with acquiring empirical data. Although experimental and theoretical physics are concerned with different aspects of nature, they both share the same goal of understanding it and have a symbiotic relationship. The former provides data about the universe, which can then be analyzed in order to be understood, while the latter provides explanations for the data and thus offers insight into how to better acquire data and set up experiments. Theoretical physics...
Combinatorial physics or physical combinatorics is the area of interaction between physics and combinatorics.  Overview  Combinatorial Physics is an emerging area which unites combinatorial and discrete mathematical techniques applied to theoretical physics, especially Quantum Theory. Physical combinatorics might be defined naively as combinatorics guided by ideas or insights from physics Combinatorics has always played an important role in quantum field theory and statistical physics. However, combinatorial physics only emerged as a specific field after a seminal work by Alain Connes and Dirk Kreimer, showing that the renormalization of Feynman diagrams can be described by a Hopf algebra. Combinatorial physics can be characterized by the use of algebraic concepts to interpret and solve physical problems involving combinatorics. It gives rise to a particularly harmonious collaboration between mathematicians and physicists. Among the significant physical results of combinatorial physics, we may mention the reinterpretation of renormalization as a Riemann-Hilbert problem, the fact that the Slavnov-Taylor identities of gauge theories generate a Hopf ideal, the quantization of fields...
In mechanics, compression is the application of balanced inward forces to different points on a material or structure, that is, forces with no net sum or torque directed so as to reduce its size in one or more directions. It is contrasted with tension or traction, the application of balanced outward forces, and with shearing forces, directed so as to displace layers of the material parallel to each other. The compressive strength of materials and structures is an important engineering consideration. In uniaxial compression, the forces are directed along one direction only, so that they act towards decreasing the object's length along that direction. The compressive forces may also be applied in multiple directions for example inwards along the edges of a plate or all over the side surface of a cylinder, so as to reduce its area , or inwards over the entire surface of a body, so as to reduce its volume. Technically, a material is under a state of compression, at some specific point and along a specific direction x displaystyle x , if the normal component of the stress vector across a surface...
The Institute of Physics is a UK-based not-for-profit learned society and professional body that works to advance physics education, research and application. It was founded in 1874 and has a worldwide membership of over 20,000. The IOP is the Physical Society for the UK and Ireland and supports physics in education, research and industry. In addition to this, the IOP provides services to its members including careers advice and professional development and grants the professional qualification of Chartered Physicist , as well as Chartered Engineer as a nominated body of the Engineering Council it also holds its own separate Royal Charter. The IOP's publishing company, IOP Publishing, publishes 85 academic titles.  History  The Institute of Physics was formed in 1960 from the merger of the Physical Society, founded as the Physical Society of London in 1874, and the Institute of Physics, founded in 1918. The Physical Society of London had been officially formed on 14 February 1874 by Frederick Guthrie, following the canvassing of opinion of Fellows of the Royal Society by the physicist and parapsychologist Sir William Barrett at the British Association for the...
A bubble is a globule of a gas substance in a liquid. In the opposite case, a globule of a liquid in a gas, is called a drop. Due to the Marangoni effect, bubbles may remain intact when they reach the surface of the immersive substance.  Common examples  Bubbles are seen in many places in everyday life, for example: As spontaneous nucleation of supersaturated carbon dioxide in soft drinks As vapor in boiling water As air mixed into agitated water, such as below a waterfall As sea foam As a soap bubble As given off in chemical reactions, e.g., baking soda  vinegar As a gas trapped in glass during its manufacture As the indicator in a spirit level As bubble gum  Physics and chemistry  Bubbles form and coalesce into globular shapes because those shapes are at a lower energy state. For the physics and chemistry behind it, see nucleation.  Appearance  Bubbles are visible because they have a different refractive index than the surrounding substance. For example, the RI of air is approximately 1.0003 and the RI of water is approximately 1.333. Snell's Law describes how electromagnetic waves change direction at the interface between two mediums with different RI thus bubbles...
The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels Between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism is a 1975 book by physicist Fritjof Capra. A bestseller in the United States, it has been translated into 23 languages. Capra summarized his motivation for writing the book: Science does not need mysticism and mysticism does not need science. But man needs both.  Origin  According to the preface of the first edition, reprinted in subsequent editions, Capra struggled to reconcile theoretical physics and Eastern mysticism and was at first helped on my way by 'power plants' or psychedelics, with the first experience so overwhelming that I burst into tears, at the same time, not unlike Castaneda, pouring out my impressions to a piece of paper. Capra later discussed his ideas with Werner Heisenberg in 1972, as he mentioned in the following interview excerpt: I had several discussions with Heisenberg. I lived in England then , and I visited him several times in Munich and showed him the whole manuscript chapter by chapter. He was very interested and very open, and he told me something that I think is not known publicly because he never published it. He said...
Classical physics consists of scientific theories in the field of physics that are non-quantum or both non-quantum and non-relativistic, depending on the context. In historical discussions, classical physics refers to pre-1900 physics, while modern physics refers to post-1900 physics, which incorporates elements of quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity. However, relativity is based on classical field theory rather than quantum field theory, and is often categorized as a part of classical physics.  Overview  Classical theory has at least two distinct meanings in physics. It can include all those areas of physics that do not make use of quantum mechanics, which includes classical mechanics using any of the Newtonian, Lagrangian, or Hamiltonian formulations, as well as classical electrodynamics and relativity. Alternatively, the term can refer to theories that are neither quantum or relativistic. Depending on point of view, among the branches of theory sometimes included in classical physics are: Classical mechanics Newton's laws of motion Classical Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formalisms Classical electrodynamics Classical thermodynamics  Comparison... 
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 803 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The philosophy of computer science is concerned with the philosophical questions that arise within the study of computer science. There is still no common understanding of the content, aims, focus, or topics of the philosophy of computer science, despite some attempts to develop a philosophy of computer science like the philosophy of physics or the philosophy of mathematics. Due to the abstract nature of computer programs and the technological ambitions of computer science, many of the conceptual questions of the philosophy of computer science are also comparable to the philosophy of science, philosophy of mathematics, and the philosophy of technology.  Overview  Many of the central philosophical questions of computer science are centered on the logical, ethical, methodological, ontological and epistemological issues that concern it. Some of these questions may include: What is computation? Does the Church-Turing thesis capture the mathematical notion of an effective method in logic and mathematics? What computational limitations does Turing's Halting Problem imply? What are the philosophical consequences of the P vs NP problem? What is information? How do ethics impact real-world...
In computer science, concurrency refers to the ability of a system to execute multiple tasks through simultaneous execution or time-sharing , sharing resources and managing interactions. Concurrency improves responsiveness, throughput, and scalability in modern computing, including: Operating systems and embedded systems Distributed systems, parallel computing, and high-performance computing Database systems, web applications, and cloud computing  Related concepts  Concurrency is a broader concept that encompasses several related ideas, including: Parallelism simultaneous execution on multiple processing units. Parallelism executes tasks independently on multiple CPU cores. Concurrency allows for multiple threads of control at the program level, which can use parallelism or time-slicing to perform these tasks. Programs may exhibit parallelism only, concurrency only, both parallelism and concurrency, neither. Multi-threading and multi-processing Synchronization Coordination managing interactions between concurrent tasks Concurrency Control Inter...
Computer science is the study of computation, information, and automation. It may also refer to: Computer Sciences Corporation, the predecessor of DC Technology Computer Science , a peer-reviewed scientific journal Computer Science , an academic event in Texas
Computer engineering is a branch of engineering specialized in developing computer hardware and software. It integrates several fields of electrical engineering, electronics engineering and computer science. Computer engineering may be referred to as Electrical and Computer Engineering or Computer Science and Engineering at some universities. Computer engineers require training in hardware-software integration, software design, and software engineering. It can encompass areas such as electromagnetism, artificial intelligence , algorithm engineering, robotics, computer networks, computer architecture and operating systems. Computer engineers are involved in many hardware and software aspects of computing, from the design of individual microcontrollers, microprocessors, personal computers, and supercomputers, to circuit design. This field of engineering not only focuses on how computer systems themselves work, but also on how to integrate them into the larger picture.  History  Computer engineering began in 1939 when John Vincent Atanasoff and Clifford Berry began developing the world's first electronic digital computer through physics, mathematics...
Advanced Placement Computer Science A also known as AP CompSci, AP CompSci A, AP CSA, AP Computer Science Applications, or AP Java is an AP Computer Science course and examination offered by the College Board to high school students as an opportunity to earn college credit for a college-level computer science course. AP Computer Science A is meant to be the equivalent of a first-semester course in computer science. The AP exam currently tests students on their knowledge of Java. AP Computer Science AB, which was equal to a full year, was discontinued following the May 2009 exam administration.  Course  AP Computer Science emphasizes object-oriented programming methodology with an emphasis on problem solving and algorithm development. It also includes the study of data structures and abstraction, but these topics were not covered to the extent that they were covered in AP Computer Science AB. The Microsoft-sponsored program Technology Education and Literacy in Schools aims to increase the number of students taking AP Computer Science classes. The units of the exam are as follows:  Case studies and labs  Historically, the AP exam used several programs in its free...
In computer science, the general meaning of input is to provide or give something to the computer, in other words, when a computer or device is receiving a command or signal from outer sources, the event is referred to as input to the device. Some computer devices can also be categorized as input devices, because devices are used to send instructions to the computer, some common examples of computer input devices are: Mouse Keyboard Touchscreen Microphone Webcam Softcam Touchpad Trackpad Image scanner Trackball Many internal components of computer are input components to other components, like the power-on button of a computer is an input component for the processor or the power supply, because it takes user input and sends it to other components for further processing. In many computer languages the keyword input is used as a special keyword or function, such as in Visual Basic or Python. The command input is used to give the machine the data it has to process.  See also  Input method Input device Inputoutput  References 
In software, an abstraction provides access while hiding details that otherwise might make access more challenging. It focuses attention on details of greater importance. Examples include the abstract data type which separates use from the representation of data and functions that form a call tree that is more general at the base and more specific towards the leaves.  Rationale  Computing mostly operates independently of the concrete world. The hardware implements a model of computation that is interchangeable with others. The software is structured in architectures to enable humans to create the enormous systems by concentrating on a few issues at a time. These architectures are made of specific choices of abstractions. Greenspun's tenth rule is an aphorism on how such an architecture is both inevitable and complex. Language abstraction is a central form of abstraction in computing: new artificial languages are developed to express specific aspects of a system. Modeling languages help in planning. Computer languages can be processed with a computer. An example of this abstraction process is the generational development of programming language from the first-generation programming...
In computer science, persistence refers to the characteristic of state of a system that outlives the process that created it. This is achieved in practice by storing the state as data in computer data storage. Programs have to transfer data to and from storage devices and have to provide mappings from the native programming-language data structures to the storage device data structures. Picture editing programs or word processors, for example, achieve state persistence by saving their documents to files.  Orthogonal or transparent persistence  Persistence is said to be orthogonal or transparent when it is implemented as an intrinsic property of the execution environment of a program. An orthogonal persistence environment does not require any specific actions by programs running in it to retrieve or save their state. Non-orthogonal persistence requires data to be written and read to and from storage using specific instructions in a program, resulting in the use of persist as a transitive verb: On completion, the program persists the data. The advantage of orthogonal persistence environments is simpler and less error-prone programs. The term persistent...
In information science, an ontology encompasses a representation, formal naming, and definitions of the categories, properties, and relations between the concepts, data, or entities that pertain to one, many, or all domains of discourse. More simply, an ontology is a way of showing the properties of a subject area and how they are related, by defining a set of terms and relational expressions that represent the entities in that subject area. The field which studies ontologies so conceived is sometimes referred to as applied ontology. Every academic discipline or field, in creating its terminology, thereby lays the groundwork for an ontology. Each uses ontological assumptions to frame explicit theories, research and applications. Improved ontologies may improve problem solving within that domain, interoperability of data systems, and discoverability of data. Translating research papers within every field is a problem made easier when experts from different countries maintain a controlled vocabulary of jargon between each of their languages. For instance, the definition and ontology of economics is a primary concern in Marxist economics, but also in other subfields of economics. An example...
In computer science, garbage collection is a form of automatic memory management. The garbage collector attempts to reclaim memory that was allocated by the program, but is no longer referenced such memory is called garbage. Garbage collection was invented by American computer scientist John McCarthy around 1959 to simplify manual memory management in Lisp. Garbage collection relieves the programmer from doing manual memory management, where the programmer specifies what objects to de-allocate and return to the memory system and when to do so. Other, similar techniques include stack allocation, region inference, and memory ownership, and combinations thereof. Garbage collection may take a significant proportion of a program's total processing time, and affect performance as a result. Resources other than memory, such as network sockets, database handles, windows, file descriptors, and device descriptors, are not typically handled by garbage collection, but rather by other methods . Some such methods de-allocate memory also.  Overview  Many programming languages require garbage collection, either as part of the language specification e.g., RPL, Java, C,...
A computer is a machine that can be programmed to automatically carry out sequences of arithmetic or logical operations . Modern digital electronic computers can perform generic sets of operations known as programs, which enable computers to perform a wide range of tasks. The term computer system may refer to a nominally complete computer that includes the hardware, operating system, software, and peripheral equipment needed and used for full operation, or to a group of computers that are linked and function together, such as a computer network or computer cluster. Numbering only a few in the 1930s, today computers are ubiquitous over a broad range of industrial and consumer products that use computers as control systems. The price, size, and complexity of computers can range from simple single-purpose devices like key fobs, microwave ovens, and remote controls up to supercomputers and factories using industrial robots. Computers are at the core of general-purpose devices such as personal computers and mobile devices, such as smartphones. Computers power the Internet, which links billions of computers and users. Early computers were meant to be used only for calculations...
In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some range of mathematical integers. Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values. Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a group of binary digits . The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer sizes available varies between different types of computers. Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer.  Value and representation  The value of an item with an integral type is the mathematical integer that it corresponds to. Integral types may be unsigned capable of representing only non-negative integers or signed capable of representing negative integers as well. An integer value is typically specified in the source code of a program as a sequence of digits optionally prefixed with  or . Some programming languages allow other notations, such as hexadecimal or octal . Some programming languages also permit digit group separators. The internal representation of this datum is the way the value is stored in the computer...
Information technology is the study or use of computers, telecommunication systems and other devices to create, process, store, retrieve and transmit information. While the term is commonly used to refer to computers and computer networks, it also encompasses other information distribution technologies such as television and telephones. Information technology is an application of computer science and computer engineering. An information technology system is generally an information system, a communications system, or, more specifically speaking, a computer system - including all hardware, software, and peripheral equipment - operated by a limited group of IT users, and an IT project usually refers to the commissioning and implementation of an IT system. IT systems play a vital role in facilitating efficient data management, enhancing communication networks, and supporting organizational processes across various industries. Successful IT projects require meticulous planning and ongoing maintenance to ensure optimal functionality and alignment with organizational objectives. Although humans have been storing, retrieving, manipulating, analysing and communicating information...
The National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences , also known by its parent institute Foundation for Advancement of Science and Technology , is a private research university in Pakistan with multiple campuses across the country, namely in major cities such as Islamabad, Lahore, Karachi, Peshawar, Multan, and Faisalabad.  Overview  The university is the first multi-campus university in Pakistan, having six modern campuses based in different cities. These campuses are located in Chiniot-Faisalabad, Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, Multan and Peshawar, providing a standard educational environment and recreational facilities to 11,000 students, out of which 500 are faculty members and a quarter is covered by female students. Founded as Federally Chartered University, it was inaugurated by Prime Minister and President Parvez Musharraf, Asif Ali Zardari, Imran Khan, Nawaz Sharif, Dr. Arif Alvi, Shehbaz Sharif in July 2000. It is consistently ranked among the leading institutions of higher education in the country and ranked top in computer sciences and information technology by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan in 2020. Its engineering programs are accredited...
The Collection of Computer Science Bibliographies was one of the oldest bibliography collections freely accessible on the Internet. As of July 2023 it ceased operations. It is a collection of bibliographies of scientific literature in computer science and mathematics from various sources, covering most aspects of computer science. The bibliographies are updated weekly from their original locations. As of 2009 the collection contains more than 2.8 million unique references mostly to journal articles, conference papers and technical reports, clustered in about 1700 bibliographies, and consists of more than 4.4 Gb of BibTe entries. More than 600,000 references contain cross-references to citing or cited publications. More than 1 million references contain URLs to online versions of the papers. Abstracts are available for more than 1 million entries. There are more than 2,000 links to other sites carrying bibliographic information.  Duplicates and links  As the Collection of Computer Science Bibliographies consists of many subcollections there is a substantial overlap . At the end of 2008 there were more...
Georgia Avenue-Petworth station is a Washington Metro station in Washington, D.C., on the Green and Yellow Lines. It is located at the border of the neighborhoods of Petworth, Sixteenth Street Heights, and Park View in Northwest.  Station layout  The station has an island platform located below New Hampshire Avenue, with street-level access from the intersection with Georgia Avenue. It also features the Arch II design found at Columbia Heights, Congress Heights, Glenmont, and Mount Vernon Square.  History  It opened on September 18, 1999, part of an extension of the Green Line that connected U Street and Fort Totten, allowing trains to travel between Anacostia and Greenbelt. The station's west entrance closed on December 11, 2006, to accommodate construction of a mixed-use development. Bus stops, bike racks, and lockers were moved, and the entrance remained closed until 2009, a year later than planned. Like many other Metro stations, Georgia Avenue-Petworth has catalyzed nearby development. The District of Columbia Office of Planning has divided development proposals near the station into four localities: Park View. Composed of three blocks along Georgia Avenue south of...
John A. Carter was a Virginia lawyer, farmer and politician, who represented Loudoun County, Virginia in both houses of the Virginia General Assembly for two terms each both before and after the American Civil War, as well as in the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1850 and the Virginia Secession Convention of 1861.  Early and family life  Carter was born at Sabine Hall, Richmond County, Virginia in 1808 to Col. Landon Carter III and his second wife, the former Mary Burwell Armistead. Both his parents descended from the First Families of Virginia. After private education locally, he attended boarding school at Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, then began studies at the University of Virginia but was expelled after a rules violation. He then studied law under Henry St. George Tucker Sr. in Winchester from 1827 until 1829. He married orphan Richardetta Louisa De Butts whose guardian was local leader John P. Dulany in Loudoun County on February 12, 1834. His wife died young, as did their daughter Mary Winn Carter and an infant son Edgar Marshall Carter, although one son Confederate Col. Richard Welby Carter  survived...
Bourama Coulibaly is a Malian professional footballer who plays as a defender for Stade Malien.  International career  In January 2014, coach Djibril Dram invited him to be a part of the Mali squad for the 2014 African Nations Championship. He helped the team to the quarter-finals, where they lost to Zimbabwe by two goals to one.  References 
John Marlan Poindexter is a retired United States naval officer and Department of Defense official. He was Deputy National Security Advisor and National Security Advisor during the Reagan administration. He was convicted in April 1990 of multiple felonies as a result of his actions in the Iran-Contra affair, but his convictions were reversed on appeal in 1991. During the George W. Bush administration, he served a brief stint as the director of the DARPA Information Awareness Office. He is the father of NASA astronaut and U.S. Navy Captain Alan G. Poindexter.  Early life and career  Poindexter was born in Odon, Indiana, the son of Marlan G. and Ellen Poindexter. He received his undergraduate degree from the United States Naval Academy in 1958, where he graduated first in a class of 899. His fellow graduates included astronaut Bruce McCandless II and Senator John McCain  previous National Security Advisor Robert McFarlane was a contemporary, graduating the following year. Poindexter received an MS and PhD in nuclear physics from the California Institute of Technology. For his dissertation,...
In computing, a symbolic link is a special computer file that refers to another file or directory by storing a path to it, thus providing an alternative access path without duplicating the target's content. Apps that use operating system services may treat a symbolic link like other files or directories, and would not know that it is a symbolic link unless they investigate its nature. A symbolic link will break if its target is moved or deleted. Symbolic links are supported in Unix-like operating systems and Microsoft Windows, although they impose varying limitations on them. Alternatives to symbolic links include hard links, shortcut files, and Windows shell objects.  Overview  A symbolic link is an independent file that stores a file system path that, except for special situations, is treated as the file system item to which the path refers: the target. If a symbolic link is deleted, its target is not affected. If the target is moved, renamed or deleted, the symbolic link is not automatically updated or deleted. Its target path would point to nothing and might be described as broken, orphaned, dead, or dangling. The symbolic link differs from the...
Jeux d'enfants Op. 22, is a suite of twelve miniatures composed by Georges Bizet for piano four hands in 1871. The entire piece has a duration of about 20 to 23 minutes.  Structure  The movement titles are as follows: L'escarpolette - reverie La toupie - impromptu La poupe - berceuse Les chevaux de bois - scherzo Le volant - fantasie Trompette et tambour - marche Les bulles de savon - rondino Les quatre coins - esquisse Colin-maillard - nocturne Saute-mouton - caprice Petit mari, petite femme - duo Le bal - galop Originally there were ten numbers, with the seventh and eighth added after the first group Trompette et tambour is adapted from a march at the start of act 5 of his opera Ivan IV. Bizet sold the work in both piano and orchestra form to Durand in September 1871 for 600 francs. Bizet's biographer Winton Dean considers it to be a forerunner of similar childhood-related works by Debussy, Faur and Ravel. He goes to comment that each evokes...
Marie Nightingale was a Canadian cookbook writer from Nova Scotia, best known for her 1970 cookbook Out of Old Nova Scotia Kitchens.  Biography  Marie Nightingale was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, in 1928, to parents Raymond and Violette Johnston . Before she began writing, she worked in radio as a women's commentator on CHNS and CJCH in Halifax and CFAB in Windsor. Nightingale's Out of Old Nova Scotia Kitchens, first published in 1970, has sold more copies than any other Nova Scotian cookbook. The 40th edition of the book was published in 2010. The book's popularity provided Nightingale opportunities as a food columnist, and she had a long and celebrated career writing for The Chronicle Herald and the Mail-Star. She was the founding food editor for Saltscapes Magazine. Following the success of Out of Old Nova Scotia Kitchens, Nightingale wrote three more cookbooks across her career: Marie Nightingale's Favourite Recipes , Out of Nova Scotia Gardens , and Cooking with Friends . Nightingale died from cancer on 15 March 2014, at the age of 85.  Publications  Nightingale, Marie . The History of the Children's Hospital. Halifax...
The 1939-40 Maltese First Division was the 29th season of top-tier football in Malta. It was contested by 6 teams, and Sliema Wanderers F.C. won the championship.  Teams   League standings   Championship tie-breaker  With both Sliema Wanderers and St. George's level on 16 points, a play-off match was conducted to decide the champion.  Results   References  Malta - List of final tables
O chyom govoryat muzhchiny. Prostye udovolstviya Russian:    .   lit. 'What Men Talk About. Simple Pleasures' is a Russian comedy film directed by Mikhail Polyakov. It was theatrically released on February 2, 2023.  Plot  Old friends meet to drink champagne and talk about the personal. Aleksey tries to understand whether female friendship is real, Kamil wonders if it is possible to fire the one you consider your best friend, Slava remembers his first love, and Alexander talks about the loss of his dad and the need to have fun, no matter what. Walking around the center of Moscow, they also discuss the problems of screwing in light bulbs and candid photos on social networks.  Cast  Rostislav Khait Leonid Barats Kamil Larin Aleksandr Demidov Mikhail Politseymako Maksim Vitorgan Garik Kharlamov Dmitry Nagiyev  References 
Sou Ni Til is an album by Malian duo Amadou  Mariam, released in 1999. It was their first album to be released internationally. The album reached No. 61 on the French albums chart. Je Pense  Toi reached No. 43 on the French singles chart. In a review for Allmusic, Brian Beatty gave the album a rating of four stars out of five and described it as mature, intelligent pop music.  Track listing  Je Pense  Toi - 5:16 Combattants - 4:26 Mouna - 4:44 Pauvre Type - 4:35 Dogons - 4:04 Baara - 4:33 Dounia - 3:17 A Radio Mogo - 4:49 Djandjola - 4:06 On Se Donne La Main - 4:34 Mon Amour, Ma Chrie - 5:23 A Chacun Son Problme - 4:40 Teree La Sebin - 5:33 Toubala Kono - 5:22 C'est La Vie - 5:26  Personnel   References 
The Dait shinp was a Japanese newspaper published in the Korean Empire between 1904 and 1906. The paper was founded by Kikuchi Kenj, who had just been dismissed from his presidency of another Japanese newspaper in Korea, the Kanj shinp. The Dait shinp generally promoted Japanese activities in Korea, although it may have criticized them on occasion. In 1906, the newspaper was purchased by the Japanese Resident-General of Korea, It Hirobumi, and merged with around six other newspapers into the Keij Nipp.  Background  The newspaper's founder was notable Japanese journalist and politician in Korea, Kikuchi Kenj . Kikuchi was previously a journalist for the newspaper in Japan Kokumin Shimbun, and had previously participated in the highly controversial 1895 assassination of the Korean queen, alongside the staff of other Japanese newspaper in Korea Kanj shinp. After the murder, Kikuchi and the other assassins were recalled to Japan and put on trial on charges of murder and conspiracy to commit murder. Controversially, they were acquitted of all charges, despite the court conceding that they had at least conspired to commit murder...
Triorbis annulata is a moth in the family Nolidae first described by Charles Swinhoe in 1890. It is found in Myanmar, Peninsular Malaysia, on Borneo and Luzon. Adults have dark red-brown forewings with a much reduced lens-shaped basal streak.  External links  Holloway, Jeremy Daniel. Triorbis annulata Swinhoe. The Moths of Borneo. Retrieved April 23, 2020.
Alicia Prieto Langarica is an American applied mathematician and professor of mathematics at Youngstown State University.  Education and career  Prieto Langarica is the granddaughter of Mexican footballer Max Prieto. She is a graduate of the University of Texas at Dallas, and received her PhD in Applied Mathematics from University of Texas at Arlington in 2012. Her dissertation, From Discrete to Continuous Models of Cell Movement: An Application to Medical Implants was completed under the guidance of Hristo Venelinov Kojouharov. She became an assistant professor of mathematics at Youngstown State University faculty in 2012, after she finished her doctorate.  Contributions  Prieto Langarica's research focuses on the intersection of mathematics and biology, specifically problems related to the medical field. She is one of four co-founders of Lathisms, a website that showcases Hispanic and Latinx mathematicians, their research, and their contributions. In 2019, she became one of the associate directors of Project NExT, a program of the Mathematical Association of America to mentor new doctorates in mathematics. During the COVID-19 pandemic, she organized events to give students...
Santa Cruz Shakespeare is an independent theater company in Santa Cruz, California, founded in 2014. Its predecessor, Shakespeare Santa Cruz, lost the financial support of its host and sponsor, the University of California, Santa Cruz in 2013. Members of the original company and board immediately began fundraising and raised enough money to form a new independent theater company. Santa Cruz Shakespeare values community, aesthetics, financial responsibility, inclusivity, inquisitiveness, and engagement through repertory theater, educational programs, and professionalism in the entertainmenttheater fields.  History  1981-2008: Shakespeare Santa Cruz was founded by Audrey Stanley in 1981 and performed annually on the campus of the University of California, Santa Cruz . Plays by Shakespeare were performed both indoors on the UCSC Theater Arts Mainstage and outdoors in the Sinsheimer-Stanley Festival Glen. Usually, the company's season ran from July to early September and presented three or four plays that ran concurrently in repertory. Over time, the company ran up deficits, which were paid by the University of California. 2008: With California's budget crisis having...
The Trojan War was a legendary conflict in Greek mythology that took place around the thirteenth or early twelfth century BC. The war was waged by the Achaeans against the city of Troy after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus, king of Sparta. The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology, and it has been narrated through many works of Greek literature, most notably Homer's Iliad. The core of the Iliad describes a period of four days and two nights in the tenth year of the decade-long siege of Troy the Odyssey describes the journey home of Odysseus, one of the war's heroes. Other parts of the war are described in a cycle of epic poems, which have survived through fragments. Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other works of Greek literature, and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid. The ancient Greeks believed that Troy was located near the Dardanelles and that the Trojan War was a historical event of the twelfth or thirteenth centuries BC. By the mid-nineteenth century AD, both the war and the city were widely seen as non-historical. In 1868, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met...
The Emu War was a nuisance wildlife management operation undertaken by the Australian Army in late 1932. The so-called 'war' was started in an attempt to cull emus damaging farmland in the Campion district within the Wheatbelt of Western Australia. A deputation of ex-soldiers requested the deployment of machine-guns to cull the emus, leading to Royal Australian Artillery soldiers armed with Lewis guns attempting to reduce emu numbers. The deployment of soldiers using machine-guns led the media to adopt the name Emu War when referring to the action. The Australian military made two attempts to cull the emus, but both were largely ineffective, as the emus split into small, alert and highly mobile groups making the operation uneconomic. Individual emus proved surprisingly hard to kill, being compared to tanks by the Australian commander. The attacks aroused both ridicule of the military and sympathy for the emus, and eventually the attempted cull was abandoned. Further requests for military assistance were rejected by the government, and alternative solutions, such as pest-exclusion fences, were utilised.  Background  Following World War I, large numbers of...
The Russo-Ukrainian war began in February 2014 and is ongoing. Following Ukraine's Revolution of Dignity, Russia occupied Crimea and annexed it from Ukraine. It then supported Russian separatist armed groups who started a war in the eastern Donbas region against Ukraine's military. In 2018, Ukraine declared the region to be occupied by Russia. The first eight years of conflict also involved naval incidents and cyberwarfare. In February 2022, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine and began occupying more of the country, starting the current phase of the war, the largest conflict in Europe since World War II. The war has resulted in a refugee crisis and hundreds of thousands of deaths. In early 2014, the Euromaidan protests led to the Revolution of Dignity and the flight of Ukraine's pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych. Immediately after, unmarked Russian troops occupied Crimea. In March 2014, Russia annexed Crimea after an illegitimate referendum. Meanwhile, pro-Russian protests began in parts of southeastern Ukraine. In April 2014, Russian-backed militants seized towns and cities in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region and proclaimed the Donetsk People's Republic and...
The American Civil War April 12, 1861 - May 26, 1865 also known by other names was a civil war in the United States between the Union and the Confederacy , which was formed in 1861 by states that had seceded from the Union to preserve slavery in the United States. The South saw slavery as threatened because of the election of Abraham Lincoln and the growing abolitionist movement in the North. The war ended with Union victory, the dissolution of the Confederacy and the abolition of slavery, freeing four million African Americans. Decades of controversy over slavery came to a head when Abraham Lincoln, a Republican who opposed slavery's expansion, won the 1860 presidential election. Seven slave states in the South responded to Lincoln's victory by seceding from the United States and forming the Confederate States of America. The Confederacy seized US forts and other federal assets in the South. The war began on April 12, 1861, when the Confederacy bombarded Fort Sumter in South Carolina. A wave of enthusiasm for war swept over the North and South, as military recruitment soared. Four more Southern states seceded after the war began and, led by its president...
The Kargil War, also known as the Kargil conflict, was fought between India and Pakistan from May to July 1999 in the Kargil district of Ladakh, then part of the Indian-administered state of Jammu and Kashmir and along the Line of Control . In India, the conflict is also referred to as Operation Vijay , which was the codename of the Indian military operation in the region. The Indian Air Force acted jointly with the Indian Army to flush out the Pakistan Army and paramilitary troops from vacated Indian positions along the LoC, in what was designated as Operation Safed Sagar . The conflict was triggered by the infiltration of Pakistani troops-disguised as Kashmiri militants-into strategic positions on the Indian side of the LoC, which serves as the de facto border between the two countries in the disputed region of Kashmir. During its initial stages, Pakistan blamed the fighting entirely on independent Kashmiri insurgents, but documents left behind by casualties and later statements by Pakistan's Prime Minister and Chief of Army Staff showed the involvement of Pakistani paramilitary forces, led by General Ashraf Rashid. The Indian Army, later supported...
Since 28 February 2026, the United States and Israel have been at war with Iran and its regional allies. Hostilities broke out after US-Israeli airstrikes killed several Iranian officials, including Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. The strikes were launched amid ongoing US-Iran negotiations regarding Iran's nuclear program. The war is part of a Middle Eastern crisis sparked by the Gaza war. It follows the Twelve-Day War and was preceded by the largest US military buildup in the region since the 2003 invasion of Iraq. US justifications for initiating the war included a response to the crackdown on anti-government protests in Iran, preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, regime change, and taking Iran's oil and gas resources. Critics have rejected these justifications, maintaining that the attack initiated a war of aggression, in violation of international law. Following a decentralized strategy, Iranian units responded with a series of missile and drone attacks against Israel and US military bases in the Middle East, US allies in the Middle East, and by blocking the Strait of Hormuz and subsequently claiming sovereignty over it in late March. Following the strikes on their territory...
The Falklands War was a ten-week war in the South Atlantic in 1982 between Argentina and the United Kingdom over possession of the Falkland Islands and its dependencies of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. The conflict began on 2 April 1982 when Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands, followed by the invasion of South Georgia the next day. On 5 April, the British government dispatched a naval task force to regain possession of the islands. The conflict lasted 74 days and ended with an Argentine surrender on 14 June, which formally returned possession to Britain. In total, 649 Argentine military personnel, 255 British military personnel, and 3 Falkland Islanders were killed during the hostilities. The conflict was a major episode in the protracted dispute over the territories' sovereignty. Argentina claimed that the islands are Argentine territory, and the Argentine government thus described its military action as the reclamation of its own territory. The British government, however, regarded the action as an invasion of a territory that had been a Crown colony since 1841. Falkland Islanders, who have inhabited the islands...
The Bosnian War Serbo-Croatian: Rat u Bosni i Hercegovini       was an armed conflict that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from 1992 until 1995. Following several earlier violent incidents, the war is commonly seen as having started on 6 April 1992 when the newly independent Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina was internationally recognized. It ended on 21 November 1995 when the Dayton Accords were initialed. The main belligerents were the forces of the government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and those of the breakaway proto-states of the Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia and the Republika Srpska which were led and supplied by Croatia and Serbia, respectively. The war was part of the breakup of Yugoslavia. Following the Slovenian and Croatian secessions from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1991, the multi-ethnic Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina - which was inhabited by mainly Muslim Bosniaks , Orthodox Serbs and Catholic Croats - passed a referendum for independence on 29 February 1992. Political representatives of the Bosnian Serbs boycotted the referendum and rejected its outcome. Anticipating the outcome...
A god of war is a deity associated with war. God of War or Gods of War may also refer to:  Books  The Gods of War, a 1985 novel by historical author John Toland The Gods of War, a 2005 novel by Conn Iggulden and the fourth in the Emperor series The God of War, a 2008 novel by Marisa Silver Gods of War, a 2009 science fiction novel by Ashok Banker God of War , a 2010-2011 limited six-issue comic book series published by WildStorm and DC Comics, based around the Greek era of the video game series God of War, a 2010 novelization of the 2005 video game, God of War, written by Matthew Stover and Robert E. Vardeman God of War - The Official Novelization, a 2018 novelization of the 2018 video game, God of War, written by James Barlog God of War , a 2018-2021 limited two-volume eight-issue comic book series published by Dark Horse Comics, based around the Norse era of the video game series  Film and television  God of War , a 2012 television series about military leader Kim Jun God of War , a Chinese historic war action film God of War , an Iranian film about the Iran-Iraq War God of War American TV series...
The Vietnam War was an armed conflict in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia fought between North Vietnam and South Vietnam and their allies. North Vietnam was supported by the Soviet Union and China, while South Vietnam was supported by the United States and other anti-communist nations. The conflict was the second of the Indochina wars and a proxy war of the Cold War. The Vietnam War was one of the postcolonial wars of national liberation, a theater in the Cold War, and a civil war, with civil warfare a defining feature from the outset. Direct US military involvement escalated from 1965 until US forces were withdrawn in 1973. The fighting spilled into the Laotian and Cambodian civil wars, which ended with all three countries becoming communist in 1975. The civil and colonial conflicts in Vietnam became internationalized in 1950. After the defeat of the French Union in the First Indochina War, Vietnam's independence was affirmed at the 1954 Geneva Conference, but the country was divided at the 17th parallel: the Viet Minh, led by Ho Chi Minh, took control of North Vietnam, while Ngo Dinh Diem led South Vietnam...
The Yemeni civil war Arabic:   , romanized: al-arb al-ahlyah al-yamanyah is an ongoing multilateral civil war that began in late 2014 mainly between the Rashad al-Alimi-led Presidential Leadership Council and the Mahdi al-Mashat-led Supreme Political Council, along with their respective supporters and allies. Both sides claim to constitute the official government of Yemen while the Presidential Leadership Council is recognized by the United Nations as the official government. The civil war began in September 2014 when Houthi forces took over the capital city Sanaa, which was followed by a rapid Houthi takeover of the government. On 21 March 2015, the Houthi-led Supreme Revolutionary Committee declared a general mobilization to overthrow then-president Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi and expand their control by driving into southern provinces. The Houthi offensive, allied with military forces loyal to former Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh, began fighting the next day in Lahij Governorate. By 25 March, Lahij fell to the Houthis and they reached the outskirts of Aden, the seat of power for Hadi's government. Hadi fled the country the same day. Concurrently, a coalition...
The Gulf War was an armed conflict between Iraq and a 42-country coalition led by the United States in response to Saddam Hussein invading neighboring Kuwait on 2 August 1990. The coalition's efforts were in two phases: Operation Desert Shield, which marked the military buildup from August 1990 to January 1991 and Operation Desert Storm, from the bombing campaign against Iraq on 17 January until the American-led liberation of Kuwait on 28 February. The invasion of Kuwait was met with immediate international condemnation. The UN Security Council demanded Iraq's immediate withdrawal and imposed a total embargo on products from Iraq and Kuwait. A coalition began a military buildup in the Persian Gulf region. The broadest military alliance since World War II, its largest contributors were the US, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, and Egypt. The Security Council issued an ultimatum to Iraq on 29 November 1990, expiring on 15 January 1991, to withdraw from Kuwait, with member-states thereafter empowered to use all necessary means to force withdrawal. On 17 January, the coalition began aerial and naval bombardment of Iraq and Kuwait, which continued for five weeks. Iraq fired missiles...
Avengers: Endgame is a 2019 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the direct sequel to Avengers: Infinity War and the 22nd film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe . Directed by Anthony and Joe Russo and written by Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, the film features an ensemble cast that includes Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy Renner, Don Cheadle, Paul Rudd, Brie Larson, Karen Gillan, Danai Gurira, Benedict Wong, Jon Favreau, Bradley Cooper, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Josh Brolin. In the film, the surviving members of the Avengers and their allies attempt to reverse Thanos's actions in Infinity War, which erased half of all life in the universe. The film was announced in October 2014 as Avengers: Infinity War - Part 2, but Marvel Studios later removed this title. The Russo brothers joined as directors in April 2015, with Markus and McFeely signing on to write the script a month later. It is a conclusion to the story of the MCU up to that point, ending several main characters' story arcs...
The Napoleonic Wars were a global series of conflicts fought by a fluctuating array of European coalitions against the French First Republic under the First Consul followed by the First French Empire under the Emperor of the French, Napoleon. The wars originated in political forces arising from the French Revolution and French Revolutionary Wars and produced a period of French domination over continental Europe. The wars are categorised as seven conflicts, five named after the coalitions that fought Napoleon, plus two named for their respective theatres: the War of the Third Coalition, War of the Fourth Coalition, War of the Fifth Coalition, War of the Sixth Coalition, War of the Seventh Coalition, the Peninsular War, and the French invasion of Russia. The first stage of the wars broke out when Britain declared war on France on 18 May 1803. After minor campaigns, Britain allied with Austria, Russia, and minor powers, to form the Third Coalition in April 1805. Napoleon defeated the allied Russo-Austrian armies in the subsequent war which climaxed in French victories at Ulm and at Austerlitz, leading to the dissolution of the Holy...
Nazi Germany, officially the German Reich and later the Greater German Reich, was the German state between 1933 and 1945, when Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party controlled the country, transforming it into a totalitarian dictatorship. The Third Reich, meaning Third Realm or Third Empire, referred to the Nazi claim that Nazi Germany was the successor to the Holy Roman Empire and the German Empire . The Third Reich, which the Nazis referred to as the Thousand-Year Reich, ended in May 1945, after 12 years, when the Allies defeated Germany and entered the capital, Berlin, ending World War II in Europe. After Hitler was appointed Chancellor of Germany in 1933, the Nazi Party began to eliminate political opposition and consolidate power. A 1934 referendum confirmed Hitler as sole Fhrer . Power was centralised in Hitler's person, and his word became the highest law. The government was not a coordinated, cooperating body, but rather a collection of factions struggling to amass power. To address the Great Depression, the Nazis used heavy military spending, extensive public works projects, including the Autobahnen , and a massive secret rearmament programme...
The Korean War was an armed conflict fought on the Korean Peninsula between North Korea Democratic People's Republic of Korea DPRK and South Korea and their allies. North Korea was supported by China and the Soviet Union, while South Korea was supported by the United Nations led by the United States under the auspices of the United Nations Command . After the end of World War II in 1945, Korea, which had been a Japanese colony for 35 years, was divided by the Soviet Union and the United States into two occupation zones at the 38th parallel, with plans for a future independent state. The zones formed their own governments in 1948 due to political disagreements. North Korea was led by Kim Il Sung in Pyongyang, and South Korea by Syngman Rhee in Seoul both claimed to be the sole legitimate government of all of Korea. Both sides engaged in extensive border clashes while Rhee's government suppressed communist uprisings at Jeju and Yeosu-Suncheon. On 25 June 1950, North Korea's Korean People's Army launched an invasion of South Korea. In the absence of the Soviet Union's representative, the UN Security Council denounced...
Civil War may refer to: Civil war, a war between organized groups within the same state or country  Armed conflicts  American Civil War Chinese Civil War English Civil War Finnish Civil War Indian Civil War Irish Civil War Russian Civil War Spanish Civil War Nigerian Civil War Syrian civil war Salvadoran Civil War  Lists of armed conflicts  List of civil wars List of Roman civil wars and revolts  Film  Captain America: Civil War, a 2016 American superhero film Civil War , a 2021 documentary by Rachel Boynton Civil War , a 2024 American film directed by Alex Garland  Television   Episodes  Civil War, a 1998 episode of Everybody Loves Raymond Civil War, a 2017 episode of Avengers Assemble Civil War, a 2025 episode of Casualty Civil War, a 2015 episode of Cedar Cove Civil War, a 2017 episode of Grey's Anatomy Civil War, a 2025 episode of I Was Reincarnated as the 7th Prince so I Can Take My Time Perfecting My Magical Ability Civil War, a 2016 episode of Scorpion Civil War,...
The Iraq War Arabic:  , romanized: arb al-irq, also referred to as the Second Gulf War , was a protracted armed conflict in Iraq from 2003 to 2011. It began with the invasion by a United States-led coalition, which resulted in the overthrow of the Ba'athist government of Saddam Hussein. During the US occupation of Iraq, the conflict persisted as an insurgency that arose against coalition forces and the newly established Iraqi government. US forces were officially withdrawn in 2011. In 2014, the US became re-engaged in Iraq, leading a new coalition under Combined Joint Task Force - Operation Inherent Resolve, as the conflict evolved into the ongoing Islamic State insurgency. The Iraq invasion was part of the Bush administration's broader war on terror, launched in response to the September 11 attacks. In October 2002, the US Congress passed a bipartisan resolution granting Bush authority to use military force against Iraq. The war began on March 20, 2003, when the US, joined by the UK, Australia, and Poland, initiated a shock and awe bombing campaign. Coalition forces launched a ground invasion, defeating Iraqi forces and toppling the Ba'athist regime. Saddam...
On 24 February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine, starting the largest and deadliest war in Europe since World War II, in a major escalation of the existing war between the two countries that began when Russia attacked Ukraine in 2014. The fighting has caused hundreds of thousands of military casualties and tens of thousands of Ukrainian civilian casualties. Russian troops occupy roughly 20 of Ukraine. From a population of 41 million, about 8 million Ukrainians have been internally displaced and 6-7 million have fled the country, creating Europe's largest refugee crisis since World War II. In late 2021, Russia massed troops near Ukraine's borders and issued demands to the West, including a ban on Ukraine ever joining NATO. After repeatedly denying having plans to attack Ukraine, on 24 February 2022, Russian president Vladimir Putin announced a special military operation, saying it was to support the Russian-backed breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, whose paramilitary forces had been fighting Ukraine in the Donbas war since 2014. Putin espoused irredentist and imperialist views challenging Ukraine's legitimacy as a state. He claimed without evidence that the Ukrainian government...
The Cold War was a period of international geopolitical rivalry between the United States and the Soviet Union and their respective allies, the capitalist Western Bloc and communist Eastern Bloc. It began in the aftermath of the Second World War and ended with the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. The term cold war is used because there was no direct fighting between the two superpowers, though each supported opposing sides in regional conflicts known as proxy wars. In addition to the struggle for ideological and economic influence and an arms race in both conventional and nuclear weapons, the Cold War was expressed through technological rivalries such as the Space Race, espionage, propaganda campaigns, embargoes, and sports diplomacy. After the end of the Second World War in 1945, during which the US and USSR had been allies, the USSR installed satellite governments in its occupied territories in Eastern Europe and North Korea by 1949, resulting in the political division of Europe by an Iron Curtain. The USSR tested its first nuclear weapon in 1949, four years after the US used its own on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and allied with the People's Republic...
Pig War may refer to the following conflicts: Saukrieg 1555-58 feud between the Bishop of Meissen and the family of his predecessor Pig War , a largely bloodless border confrontation between the United States and the British Colony of Vancouver Island Pork war of 1880s, European nations embargo of US pork export Pig War , a trade war between the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Kingdom of Serbia The Pig War , a Latin poem The Pig War, an episode of Hey, Arnold! loosely inspired by the American-British war on Vancouver Island  See also  All pages with titles beginning with Pig War All pages with titles containing Pig War War pigs
The American Revolutionary War , also known as the Revolutionary War or American War of Independence or simply the American Revolution, was the armed conflict that comprised the final eight years of the broader American Revolution, in which American Patriot forces organized as the Continental Army and, commanded by George Washington, defeated the British Army. The conflict was fought in North America, the Caribbean, and the Atlantic Ocean. The war's outcome seemed uncertain for most of the war, but Washington and the Continental Army's decisive victory in the Siege of Yorktown in 1781 led King George III and the Kingdom of Great Britain to negotiate an end to the war. In 1783, in the Treaty of Paris, the British monarchy acknowledged the independence of the Thirteen Colonies, leading to the establishment of the United States as an independent and sovereign nation. In 1763, after the British Empire gained dominance in North America following its victory over the French in the Seven Years' War, tensions and disputes began escalating between the British and the Thirteen Colonies, especially following passage of the Stamp and Townshend Acts. The British...
Foyle's War is a British detective drama television series set during and shortly after the Second World War, created by Midsomer Murders screenwriter and author Anthony Horowitz and commissioned by ITV after the long-running series Inspector Morse ended in 2000. It began broadcasting on ITV in October 2002. ITV director of programmes Simon Shaps cancelled Foyle's War in 2007, but Peter Fincham revived the programme after good ratings for 2008's fifth series. The final episode was broadcast on 18 January 2015, after eight series.  Description  Detective Chief Superintendent Christopher Foyle , a widower, is quiet, methodical, sagacious, scrupulously honest, and is frequently underestimated by his foes. Many of his cases concern profiteering, the black market and murder, and he is often called on to catch criminals who are taking advantage of the confusion created by the war. Although Foyle often comes up against high-ranking officials in the British military or intelligence services who would prefer that he mind his own business, he seeks justice tenaciously. Throughout the series, he is assisted by his driver, Samantha Sam Stewart Honeysuckle...
The war on terror, officially the Global War on Terrorism , is a global military campaign initiated by the United States in response to the September 11 attacks in 2001. A global conflict spanning multiple wars, some researchers and political scientists have argued that it replaced the Cold War. The main targets of the campaign were militant Islamist movements such as al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and their allies. Other major targets included the Ba'athist regime in Iraq, which was deposed in an invasion in 2003, and various militant factions that fought during the ensuing insurgency. Following its territorial expansion in 2014, the Islamic State also emerged as a key adversary of the United States. In 2026, the United States and Israel launched a war on Iran, identifying it as the largest state sponsor of terrorism. Al-Qaeda's de facto leader, Saif al-Adel, is believed to be living in Iran. The term war on terror uses war as a metaphor to describe a variety of actions which fall outside the traditional definition of war. US president George W. Bush first used the term war on terrorism on 16 September 2001, and then war on terror a few days later in a formal speech to Congress...
The Yugoslav Wars were a series of separate but related ethnic conflicts, wars of independence, and insurgencies that took place from 1991 to 2001 in what had been the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The conflicts both led up to and resulted from the breakup of Yugoslavia, which began in mid-1991, into six independent countries matching the six republics that had previously constituted Yugoslavia: Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, and Macedonia, which was later renamed to North Macedonia. The breakup of Yugoslavia and the accompanying Yugoslav Wars are commonly attributed to increasing nationalism and unresolved ethnic tensions in Yugoslavia. While most of the conflicts ended through peace accords that involved full international recognition of the new states, they resulted in the deaths of many as well as severe economic damage to the region. During the initial stages of the breakup of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav People's Army sought to preserve the unity of Yugoslavia by eradicating all nationalists in the governments of the republics. However, it increasingly came under the influence of Slobodan Miloevi, whose government invoked Serbian...
The term Sudanese Civil War refers to at least three separate conflicts, intermittently ongoing for more than 70 years, in Sudan: Sudanese Civil War 1955-1972 Sudanese Civil War 1983-2005 Sudanese civil war It could also refer to other internal conflicts in Sudan: Sudanese nomadic conflicts War in Darfur Sudanese conflict in South Kordofan and Blue Nile Blue Nile clashes  See also  Mahdist War Heglig Crisis South Sudanese wars of independence, the civil wars of 1955-1972 and 1983-2005 in South Sudan South Sudanese Civil War Internal conflict in South Sudan Sudanese Sovereignty Council Sudanese coup d'tat Transitional Military Council
The war to end war now commonly phrased the war to end all wars originally from the 1914 book The War That Will End War by H. G. Wells is a term for the First World War . Originally an idealistic slogan, it is now mainly used sardonically, since not only was the First World War not history's final war, but its aftermath also indirectly contributed to the outbreak of the even more devastating Second World War .  Origin  During August 1914, immediately after the outbreak of the war, English author and social commentator H. G. Wells published a number of articles in London newspapers that subsequently appeared as a book entitled The War That Will End War. He blamed the Central Powers for starting the war and argued that only the defeat of German militarism could bring about an end. He used the shorter form, the war to end war, for In the Fourth Year , in which he noted that the phrase got into circulation in the second half of 1914. It became one of the most common catchphrases of the First World War.  Later use  During the First World War, the phrase met with some degree of skepticism. As it became apparent that the war had not succeeded...
War paint is paint ritually applied to the face andor body prior to going into a battle. War Paint or Warpaint may also refer to:  Music  Warpaint , an American indie rock band from Los Angeles Warpaint , 2014 album by Warpaint Warpaint, song by Warpaint from The Fool  Albums  Warpaint , or the title song War Paint , or the title song Warpaint War Paint , or the title song  Songs  War Paint War Paint War Paint, by Gwen Stefani from This Is What the Truth Feels Like Warpaint, by Ivory Hours War Paint, by Kelly Clarkson from Piece by Piece War Paint, by Rush from Presto War Paint, by Jonah Marais  Films  War Paint , a western by W. S. Van Dyke War Paint , a western starring Robert Stack and Joan Taylor Iliza Shlesinger: War Paint, a 2013 stand-up comedy film  Other uses  War Paint , a ProRodeo Hall of Fame bucking horse Warpaint , a mascot of the Kansas City Chiefs NFL team War...
A world war is an international conflict that involves most or all of the world's major powers. Conventionally, the term is reserved for the two major international conflicts that occurred during the first half of the 20th century: World War I and World War II . Some historians have also characterized other global conflicts as world wars, such as the Seven Years' War, the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, Cold War, and the war on terror.  Etymology  The Oxford English Dictionary had cited the first known usage in the English language to a Scottish newspaper, The People's Journal, in 1848: A war among the great powers is now necessarily a world-war. The term world war is used by Karl Marx and his associate, Friedrich Engels, in a series of articles published around 1850 called The Class Struggles in France. Rasmus B. Anderson in 1889 described an episode in Teutonic mythology as a world war , justifying this description by a line in an Old Norse epic poem, Vlusp: folcvig fyrst I heimi . German writer August Wilhelm Otto Niemann used the term world war in the title of his anti-British...
Star Wars is an American media franchise created by George Lucas. The space opera saga began with the original Star Wars film and quickly became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon. It has expanded into various films and other media, including television series, video games, novels, comic books, theme park attractions, and themed areas, comprising an all-encompassing fictional universe. Star Wars is one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time and has a large following. The original film, later retitled Episode IV: A New Hope, was followed by the sequels Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back and Episode VI: Return of the Jedi , forming the original Star Wars trilogy. Lucas later returned to the series to write and direct a prequel trilogy, consisting of Episode I: The Phantom Menace , Episode II: Attack of the Clones , and Episode III: Revenge of the Sith . In 2012, Lucas sold his production company to Disney, relinquishing his ownership of the franchise. This led to a sequel trilogy, consisting of Episode VII: The Force Awakens , Episode VIII: The Last Jedi , and Episode I: The Rise of Skywalker . All nine films, collectively...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 814 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Torch is an open-source machine learning library, a scientific computing framework, and a scripting language based on Lua. It provides LuaJIT interfaces to deep learning algorithms implemented in C. It was created by the Idiap Research Institute. Torch development moved in 2017 to PyTorch, a port of the library to Python.  torch  The core package of Torch is torch. It provides a flexible N-dimensional array or Tensor, which supports basic routines for indexing, slicing, transposing, type-casting, resizing, sharing storage and cloning. This object is used by most other packages and thus forms the core object of the library. The Tensor also supports mathematical operations like max, min, sum, statistical distributions like uniform, normal and multinomial, and basic linear algebra subprogram operations like dot product, matrix-vector multiplication, matrix-matrix multiplication and matrix product. The following exemplifies using torch via its REPL interpreter: The torch package also simplifies object-oriented programming and serialization by providing various convenience functions which are used throughout its packages. The torch.class function can...
Maps.me is a mobile app for Android, iOS and BlackBerry that provides offline maps using OpenStreetMap data. It was formerly known as MapsWithMe. In November 2014, it was acquired by Mail.Ru Group and became part of its My.com brand. In September 2015, the app was open sourced and a free and open-source software version was additionally made available on F-droid until the application was sold to the payment processor Daegu Limited, part of Parity.com, which changed the application user interface and content, leading original MapsWithMe founders Alexander Borsuk and Viktor Govako to release an open source ad- and tracker-free fork called 'Organic Maps' in response.  History  Maps.me was founded by Yury Melnichek, Alexander Borsuk, Viktor Govako and Siarhei Rachytski. Under the leadership of Alexander, MapsWithMe onboarded 2.5M users worldwide. In November 2014, it was acquired by Mail.Ru Group and became part of its My.com brand. In September 2015, the app was open sourced and a free and open-source software version was additionally made available on F-droid. In November 2020 Mail.ru Group sold Maps.me to the payment processor Daegu Limited, part of Parity.com Group. Daegu Limited...
The Hyper Text Coffee Pot Control Protocol is a facetious communication protocol for controlling, monitoring, and diagnosing coffee pots. As part of Internet Engineering Task Force's Request for Comments, RFC 2324 is published on 1 April 1998 as an April Fools' Day RFC, as part of an April Fools prank. An extension, HTCPCP-TEA, was published as RFC 7168 on 1 April 2014 to support brewing teas, also as an April Fools' Day RFC in error 418.  Protocol  RFC 2324 was written by Larry Masinter, who describes it as a satire, saying This has a serious purpose - it identifies many of the ways in which HTTP has been extended inappropriately. The wording of the protocol made it clear that it was not entirely serious for example, it notes that there is a strong, dark, rich requirement for a protocol designed espressoly for the brewing of coffee. Despite the joking nature of its origins, or perhaps because of it, the protocol has remained as a minor presence online. The editor Emacs includes a fully functional client-side implementation of it, and a number of bug reports exist complaining about Mozilla's lack of support for the protocol. Ten years after the publication of HTCPCP...
MurmurHash is a non-cryptographic hash function suitable for general hash-based lookup. It was created by Austin Appleby in 2008 and, as of 8 January 2016, is hosted on GitHub along with its test suite named SMHasher. It also exists in a number of variants, all of which have been released into the public domain. The name comes from two basic operations, multiply and rotate , used in its inner loop. Unlike cryptographic hash functions, it is not specifically designed to be difficult to reverse by an adversary, making it unsuitable for cryptographic purposes.  Variants   MurmurHash1  The original MurmurHash was created as an attempt to make a faster function than Lookup3. Although successful, it had not been tested thoroughly and was not capable of providing 64-bit hashes as in Lookup3. Its design would be later built upon in MurmurHash2, combining a multiplicative hash similar to the Fowler-Noll-Vo hash function with an orshift.  MurmurHash2  MurmurHash2 yields a 32- or 64-bit value. It comes in multiple variants, including some that allow incremental hashing and aligned or neutral versions. MurmurHash2 -The original version contains a flaw that...
Angel Wings is the eighth studio album by Taiwanese recording artist Rainie Yang. The album was released on August 23, 2013, by Sony Music Taiwan. It produced the singles Angel Wings and Brave Love.  Release  The album was released in three editions: regular, Love Letter Edition and Fantasy Land Edition. A special edition was released on September 20, 2013, which includes a new 28-page photo lyric booklet, postcards and magnet.  Music videos  Five music videos were released for the album: Angel Wings on August 8, Brave Love on August 18, Busy Life on September 4, Kidnapped By Myself on September 17, and A Short Break on October 2, 2013.  Track listing   Charts   Release history   References   External links  Rainie YangSony Music Taiwan Rainie Yang discographySony Music Taiwan
Glenholme is a suburb of Rotorua in the Bay of Plenty Region of New Zealand's North Island.  Demographics  Glenholme covers 1.72 km2 and had an estimated population of 5,160 as of June 2025, with a population density of 3,000 people per km2. Glenholme had a population of 4,812 in the 2023 New Zealand census, an increase of 147 people since the 2018 census, and an increase of 534 people since the 2013 census. There were 2,244 males, 2,556 females, and 15 people of other genders in 1,920 dwellings. 3.1 of people identified as LGBTIQ. The median age was 40.2 years . There were 879 people aged under 15 years, 888 aged 15 to 29, 2,058 aged 30 to 64, and 990 aged 65 or older. People could identify as more than one ethnicity. The results were 54.8 European  37.5 Mori 6.1 Pasifika 19.6 Asian 1.2 Middle Eastern, Latin American and African New Zealanders  and 1.6 other, which includes people giving their ethnicity as New Zealander. English was spoken by 94.8, Mori by 12.3, Samoan by 0.7, and other languages by 15.5. No language could be spoken by 2.2 e.g...
The Outlaw Bible of American Poetry, edited by Alan Kaufman, is an anthology of American underground poets and fringe poetry from the 1950s to the 2000s. First published in 1999, the collection features work from several notable poets, including Jack Micheline, Patti Smith, Harold Norse, David Trinidad, Tuli Kupferberg, D.A. Levy, Bob Kaufman, Jim Chandler, Jim Brodey, Daniel Higgs, ruth weiss, Jack Kerouac, Bonny Finberg, David Lerner, Richard Brautigan, Allen Ginsberg, Tom Waits, William S. Burroughs, Ken Kesey, Justin Chin, Diane Di Prima, and FrancEyE, among others. S.A. Griffin served as a contributing editor. Kaufman uses the term Outlaw poets in reference to poets whose work is featured in the Outlaw Bible. The definition of the term was characterised as pretty broad by Maria Russo in Salon.com, including poets of different ages and backgrounds. The book was reviewed in Kirkus Reviews, where the reviewer called it an unwieldy hodgepodge of texts. John Strausbaugh reviewed it in New York Press, commenting on the large amount of beatnik poetry being published and questioning the need for another anthology, but stated that there's writing here worth reading, if you can...
Tales of Nazir is a Ghanaian comic animation series and a 2016 compilation feature film. It revolves around the character of Nazir and challenges he faces. The series was created by Ghanaian animator Louis Appiah and has been running since 2014. It often portrays Ghanaian celebrities and contains elements of political satire. The series was nominated at the ZAAFA African Awards in 2015.  Filmography   Films  Tales of Nazir - The Movie Book of Eden  Animated series  Nazir and Okra Tales of Nazir - Nazir Mona Bosom Tales of Nazir - Shatta Gringo. Tales of Nazir - Nazir and Kofi Kinaata. Tales of Nazir - Polling Assistant. Tales of Nazir - Eye Galagcee. Tales of Nazir - Rice Cooker. Tales of Nazir - Dumsor. Tales of Nazir - Bribery Gone Wrong. Tales of Nazir - Movenpick. Tales of Nazir - Visa Palava. Tales of Nazir - Call To God. Tales of Nazir - Nam 1 Finally Speaks. Tales of Nazir - Nazir's New Girl Friend Akua Becca. Tales of Nazir - Nazir, Kofi Kinaata  Anas. Tales of Nazir - Captain Planet with Bra Charles. Tales of Nazir - Nazir in Lagos. Tales of Nazir - Nazir And Wanluv Press Conference Gone Wrong. Tales of Nazir - Nazir And Bedi Ragga...
James Gary Propp is a professor of mathematics at the University of Massachusetts Lowell.  Education and career  In high school, Propp was one of the national winners of the United States of America Mathematical Olympiad , and an alumnus of the Hampshire College Summer Studies in Mathematics. Propp obtained his AB in mathematics in 1982 at Harvard. After advanced study at Cambridge, he obtained his PhD from the University of California at Berkeley. He has held professorships at seven universities, including Harvard, MIT, the University of Wisconsin, and the University of Massachusetts Lowell.  Mathematical research  Propp is the co-editor of the book Microsurveys in Discrete Probability and has written more than fifty journal articles on game theory, combinatorics and probability, and recreational mathematics. He lectures extensively and has served on the Mathematical Olympiad Committee of the Mathematical Association of America, which sponsors the USAMO. In the early 90s Propp lived in Boston and later in Arlington, Massachusetts. In 1996, Propp and David Wilson invented coupling from the past, a method for sampling from the stationary distribution of a Markov...
Stowe Marine is a developer and manufacturer of advanced instrumentation systems for racing and cruising sailing yachts.  Introduction  Stowe instruments can be found on many of the world's leading sailing yachts, such as Velsheda. Stowe is now based in Lymington on the south coast of England.  History  The company was founded in the 1970s by Alan Cozens in a shed in his back garden in Rowlands Castle, Hampshire, England. The first product which proved very popular was the Trailing Log, a portable battery powered instrument that measures boat speed and distance run. Thousands of these early instruments are still in use today. Over the course of the 1980s and 1990s Stowe extended its activities into Integrated Instruments, Autopilots and Navigation Plotters. As a company Stowe has changed hands a number of times during its 25 year lifetime, and is now a subsidiary of Tinley Electronics, the Lymington based marine electronics service company. Stowe however remains headquartered just a few miles from its birthplace.  Products  Stowe produces integrated instrumentation systems that collect and analyse a wide range of data relating both to a yacht's performance and the external...
The Battle of Paterna took place between the troops of the Kingdom of Len, under the command of Ferdinand I of Len and Castile, and those of the Taifa of Valencia, commanded by Abd al-Malik ibn Abd al-Aziz al-Muaffar. The battle occurred at the same time as the Siege of Valencia, resulted in a victory for the Kingdom of Len.  Historical context  In 1063, Fernando I of Leon sent his son, the infante Sancho to the aid of his vassal, Ahmad al-Muqtadir, king of the Taifa of Zaragoza when his city of Graus was being besieged by the forces of Ramiro I of Aragon. Consequently, Ramiro, who was Fernando's brother, would be defeated and killed. In the aftermath of that battle, there ensued a mass slaughter of Christians. To appease public support, Ahmad al-Muqtadir stopped paying his vassal tribute to the Kingdom of Len. King Fernando responded in 1065 by launching an expedition into the valley of the Ebro River, devastating the land and defeating al-Muqtadir, once again forcing him into a vassal state. The expedition continued on towards the Taifa of Valencia, governed by Abd al-Malik ibn Abd al-Aziz al-Muaffar, with the intent on also turning that city into a vassal...
Heimdalargaldr is an Old Norse poem about the god Heimdallr of Norse mythology. The poem is mentioned in two books of the 13th century Prose Edda book-Gylfaginning and Skldskaparml-but outside of a single, two-lined fragment that appears in Gylfaginning, the poem is considered to be lost. In the surviving fragment, Heimdallr comments that he is the son of nine sisters .  Fragment  The poem is mentioned in two books of the Prose Edda Gylfaginning and Skldskaparml. The sole surviving fragment of Heimdalargaldr appears in chapter 25 of Gylfaginning. In the chapter, the enthroned figure of High tells the disguised mythical king Gangleri about the god Heimdallr, including that he is the son of nine sisters. After quoting a stanza about the Heimdallr's dwelling Himinbjrg from the poem Grmnisml, High comments that Heimdallr says the following lines in a work by the name of Heimdalargaldr: In chapter 8 of Skldskaparml, various ways to refer to Heimdallr are provided. The section notes that Heimdallr is the subject of a work known as Heimdalargaldr, and that, since the poem, the head has been called Heimdall's doom...
Blackbox is a 2016 puzzle game developed and designed by Ryan McLeod. In Blackbox, the player solves puzzles by discovering and exploring the device's hardware and operating system rarely do solutions involve touch mechanics. As the player progresses more puzzles are unlocked. Blackbox won a 2017 Apple Design Award for innovation and excellence in design and accessibility and was recognized as a 2018 Webby Award Honoree in the Puzzle and Best Visual Design categories. It has also won a Golden Apple from AppleVis an online community of blind and low-vision Apple product users as Best iOS Game for 2017.  Gameplay  In Blackbox, the player attempts to turn on lights by solving their associated challenge. Once a challenge is solved, its light is turned on permanently. Lights are displayed on a home grid and are grouped in sets by challenge type . Each set of challenges has a unique minimalistic visual and sonic representation that helps player understand and solve its puzzles. The game's grid and non-linear level sequence let players of varying skill and thinking styles to play and explore at their own pace. Each challenge has hints of varying...
This is a complete list of compositions by Sergei Rachmaninoff . Rachmaninoff's compositions cover a variety of musical forms and genres. Born in Novgorod, Russia in 1873, he studied at the Moscow Conservatory with Nikolai Zverev, Alexander Siloti, Sergei Taneyev and Anton Arensky, and while there, composed some of his most famous works, including the first piano concerto and the Prelude in C minor . Although spread over three different opuses, he did go on to complete an important set of 24 preludes in all the major and minor keys. His Symphony No. 1 was one of his first compositions as a Free Artist after graduation, and subsequently his first critical failure. The derision he received sent him into depression. After undergoing autosuggestive therapy, he regained his confidence and composed his second piano concerto , which is widely considered as one of the best piano concertos. In 1909, he made his first concert tour of the United States, and composed his Piano Concerto No. 3 , notable for its structural ingenuity and technical difficulty. After this, due to emigration from Russia in 1917 and his busy concert career,...
The Cuban Institute of Cinematographic Art and Industry ICAIC, Instituto Cubano del Arte e Industria Cinematogrficos was established by the Cuban government in March 1959 after the Cuban Revolution. Its prominent members are Sara Gmez, Toms Gutirrez Alea, Julio Garca Espinosa, Alfredo Guevara and Santiago lvarez. The ICAIC is an organization of the film industry to produce, distribute and exhibit films and related work following the Cuban Revolution. Its aim is to use film as a powerful mass communication medium to mobilize and educate people, improve the quality of Cuba films with appreciation among the masses and reach a wide public. Through educating the new generation of young directors, one of its responsibilities is to transform Cuba from a country of cinematic consumption to one of production.  History of the ICAIC   The creation of the ICAIC  Following the success of the Cuban Revolution in 1959, the new Cuban government viewed the film industry as an instrument of social change. Cuba prioritized film as a communications strategy to build revolutionary culture. The Cuban government invested substantial funds for public investment in both film production and film...
Kirin is a village in central Croatia, in the municipality of Gvozd, Sisak-Moslavina County. It is connected by the D6 highway.  History  Kirin Republic was established on 2 August 1941.  Demographics  According to the 2011 census, the village of Kirin has 52 inhabitants. This represents 16.25 of its pre-war population according to the 1991 census. According to the 1991 census, 98.75 of the village population were ethnic Serbs , 0.31 were ethnic Croats , while 0.94 were of other ethnic origin .  Notable natives and residents  Mile Novakovi  References 
Araceli Navarro Laso is a Spanish sabre fencer. She won one of the bronze medals in the women's sabre event at the 2022 World Fencing Championships held in Cairo, Egypt. Navarro represented Spain at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where she competed in the women's individual sabre event. At the Olympics, she defeated Mexico's Anglica Larios in the preliminary round of sixty-four, before she was forced to retire in her next match against United States' Rebecca Ward, because of a dislocated left shoulder injury, with a score of 7-12.  References   External links  Profile - FIE EuroFencing Profile NBC Olympics Profile
The Network Crack Program Hacker Group is a Chinese hacker group based out of Zigong in Sichuan Province. While the group first gained notoriety after hacking 40 of the hacker association websites in China, their attacks grew in sophistication and notoriety through 2006 and received international media attention in early 2007. iDefense linked the GinWui rootkit, developed by their leader Tan Dailin with attacks on the US Department of Defense in May and June 2006. iDefense linked the group with many of the 35 zero-day hacker proof-of-concept codes used in attacks with over a period of 90 days during the summer of 2006. They are also known for the remote-network-control programs they offer for download. Wicked Rose announced in a blog post that the group is paid for their work, but the group's sponsor is unknown.  Members  The group had four core members in 2006, Wicked Rose, KuNgBim, Charles, and Rodag, with approximately 10 members in total. The group's current membership is unknown.  Wicked Rose  Wicked Rose, also known as Meigui , is the pseudonym of the Chinese hacker Tan Dailin. He is first noted as a hacker during the patriotic attacks...
Isabella Vandervall was an African-American physician, gynecologist and a prominent advocate for the birth control movement in New York City. She attended the New York Medical College for Women, from which she graduated at the top of her class.  Life  Isabella Vandervall was the daughter of Isabella Vandervall and James Nelson Vandervall, a businessman and community leader in Orange, New Jersey. Isabella was an outstanding student, and graduated high school at 16. In 1917, she married Dr. William Randolph R. Granger Jr., who had studied at Dartmouth College and came from a family of doctors. They adopted a daughter, Mary Isabella, together and were later described as 'one of Brooklyn's most popular couples'. . Vandervall was a member of Delta Sigma Theta, she joined the Sorority through its Alpha Beta chapter, now New York Alumnae.  Career  In the 19th and early 20th centuries, opportunities for African-American women in medical roles were rare, but during the 1910s and 1920s, many states passed laws requiring the completion of an internship in order to gain a medical license. Vandervall graduated from New York Medical College for Women in 1915, and...
Cefn Carnedd is an Iron Age hillfort, about 1.5 miles south-west of Caersws, in Powys, Wales. It is a scheduled monument. It is on a hill overlooking the River Severn to the east, and Afon Cerist and Afon Trannon to the north there is a river confluence to the north-east, between the fort and Caersws.  Description  The fort is about 437 metres by 84 metres orientated north-east to south-west, aligned with the shape of the hill it encloses an area of about 6 hectares . There are triple banks and ditches on the north-west side, and there are entrances in the north-east and south-west. In an early phase, there was a smaller fort of 1.6 hectares at the south-west end, traces of the north-east rampart of this being visible in aerial photographs. There is a straight bank and ditch across the interior, which was built at a late stage.  History  It is thought that the fort may have been a stronghold of the Ordovices, and it is one of the locations suggested as the site of Caratacus' last battle in AD 51, when he was defeated by the Romans.  See also  Hillforts in Britain List of Scheduled prehistoric Monuments in Powys Montgomeryshire...
The Muringamangalam Sreemahadevar Temple, located half a kilometre from Konni Junction, is more than 1000 years old. It used to belong to the Pandalam Royal Family. It is the biggest temple east of Pathanamthitta and the biggest Siva temple in Pathanamthitta District. This temple is in the State of Kerala in the peninsular India. The main deity is Lord Shiva, facing east. Lords Ganapathi, Ayyappa, Nagas and Krishna are installed here. The temple of Lord Krishna is a recent addition, as it was after his presence was found in 'Devaprasnam', due to continuous Bhagavatha Sapthaham.  References 
Manon Valentino is a French cyclist. She represented her country at the 2016 and 2020 Summer Olympics.  References   External links  Media related to Manon Valentino at Wikimedia Commons Manon Valentino at UCI BM Racing World Cup Manon Valentino at Olympedia Manon Valentino at Olympics.com Manon Valentino at quipe de France Olympique
A technology demonstration , also known as demonstrator model, is a prototype, rough example or otherwise incomplete version of a conceivable product or future system, put together as proof of concept with the primary purpose of showcasing the possible applications, feasibility, performance and method of an idea for a new technology. They can be used as demonstrations to the investors, partners, journalists or even to potential customers in order to convince them of the viability of the chosen approach, or to test them on ordinary users.  Computers and gaming  Technology demonstrations are often used in the computer industry, emerging as an important tool in response to short development cycles in software and hardware development. Computer game developers use tech demos to rouse and maintain interest to titles still in development because game engines are usually ready before the art is finished and to ensure functionality by early testing. Short segments using finished game engines may be presented as game demos. Graphics cards manufacturers use tech demos to showcase the performance of their cards even before any games can deliver that performance or before the...
In computer science, computer engineering, and telecommunications, a network is a group of communicating computers and peripherals known as hosts, which communicate data to other hosts via communication protocols, as facilitated by networking hardware. Within a computer network, hosts are identified by network addresses, which allow networking hardware to locate and identify hosts. Hosts may also have hostnames, memorable labels for the host nodes, which can be mapped to a network address using a hosts file or a name server such as Domain Name Service. The physical medium that supports information exchange includes wired media like copper cables, optical fibers, and wireless radio-frequency media. The arrangement of hosts and hardware within a network architecture is known as the network topology. The first computer network was created in 1940 when George Stibitz connected a terminal at Dartmouth to his Complex Number Calculator at Bell Labs in New York. Today, almost all computers are connected to a computer network, such as the global Internet or embedded networks such as those found in many modern electronic devices. Many applications have only limited functionality unless they are...
Hesai Technology is a publicly listed Chinese technology company that engages in the development and sales of lidar products such as sensors. Its products are used mainly in the ADAS, vehicular automation, robotics and industrial sectors.  History  When Hesai was founded, lidar products were entering a period of growth especially when American companies were launching robotaxis. At that time, a set of lidar products could cost up to US80,000 however Hesai was able to sell them for US40,000 which helped it to gain it market share. Hesai has seen domestic success in China. Previously Baidu acquired light sensors from Velodyne Lidar for its robotaxis. However Velodyne did not have a warehouse in China and it took months to send parts back and forth to the US for repair. Hesai took advantage by being able to provide domestic after-sales service that could repair components within two days. As a result, in 2018, Baidu awarded Hesai a contract to be its supplier. Hesai has also targeted self driving cars. In 2021 it launched its first generation lidar for self driving cars, and in 2022 it launched its second generation one. Li Auto became...
Oak Technology was an American supplier of semiconductor chips for sound cards, graphics cards and optical storage devices such as CD-ROM, CD-RW and DVD. It achieved success with optical storage chips and its stock price increased substantially around the time of the tech bubble in 2000. After falling on hard times, in 2003 it was acquired by Zoran Corporation. Oak Technology helped develop the ATAPI standard and provided the oakcdrom.sys CD-ROM driver that was ubiquitous on DOS-based systems in the mid-1990s.  History  Oak Technology, Inc. was founded by semiconductor pioneer David Tsang in 1987 and was headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, United States with operations across the US and Asia Pacific. During the late 1980s through the early 1990s, Oak was a supplier of PC graphics chipsets, CD-ROM controller chips and PCBs. Oak Technology also supplied motherboard chipsets - a PS2-compatible chipset and the Oaknote chipset for notebooks. Oak enjoyed modest success in the value segment of the market. In 1994, Sun Microsystems decided to change the name of its new language from Oak to Java because Oak was already trademarked by Oak Technology.  Initial... 
The philosophy of technology is a reflective inquiry into the assumptions, values, knowledge claims, and consequences embedded in human making and doing, especially when people design, use, and organize tools, systems, and processes. It examines what technology is , how technological artifacts are designed and used, and how technology differs from science and craft. The philosophy of technology deals with ethical, social, and political problems--major questions include whether technology is value-neutral how responsibility for technological risks should be assigned and how technologies shape human behavior, culture, power relations, and conceptions of knowledge and agency. In the West, philosophical discussion of technology dates back to ancient Greek philosophy. In premodern times, Chinese technology was not primarily organized around Greek techne or Promethean mastery over nature. Instead, it was embedded in relations between dao, qi, li, morality, heaven, and cosmic harmony. Chinese technical practices were therefore not simply technology in the modern Western sense, but part of a broader moral-cosmological order.  History... 
Animal technology refers to the practices of keeping, breeding and providing care for animals that are used for scientific purposes, such as captive in a laboratory. Animal technology is one of the recognized professional areas held by registered science technicians, and animal technologists, also called animal technicians, play a key role in supporting biomedical research by ensuring that animals are available for study. Principal areas of animal technology include animal husbandry and breeding, providing day-to-day care for laboratory animals, ensuring compliance with animal welfare practices and legal issues and performing essential scientific procedures. Technical qualifications for animal technologists and the regulations they must adhere to vary by country, but in many parts of the world animal technology is a highly structured profession that forms part of laboratory management. Animal technology is related to the field of animal management and technologists are often specialize in working with particular species of animals, either in the laboratory or in the field.  See also  Technology in veterinary medicine History of wildlife tracking technology  References 
The ethics of technology is a sub-field of ethics addressing ethical questions specific to the technology age, the transitional shift in society wherein personal computers and subsequent devices provide for the quick and easy transfer of information. Technology ethics is the application of ethical thinking to growing concerns as new technologies continue to rise in prominence. The topic has evolved as technologies have developed. Technology poses an ethical dilemma on producers and consumers alike. The subject of technoethics, or the ethical implications of technology, have been studied by different philosophers such as Hans Jonas and Mario Bunge.  Technoethics  Technoethics is an interdisciplinary research area that draws on theories and methods from multiple knowledge domains such as communications, social sciences, information studies, technology studies, applied ethics, and philosophy to provide insights on ethical dimensions of technological systems and practices for advancing a technological society. Technoethics views technology and ethics as socially embedded enterprises and focuses on discovering the ethical uses for technology, protecting against the misuse of...
TPV Technology Limited is a Fortune China 500 multinational electronics manufacturing company headquartered in Kwun Tong, Hong Kong, and incorporated in Bermuda. It is the world's largest manufacturer of computer monitors with a 33 market share. TPV designs and produces a full range of CRT and TFT LCD monitors as well as LCD TVs for distribution globally. It owns brands such as AOC, Envision, and Philips for some products TPV obtained the brand name of Philips from Koninklijke Philips N.V.. It is also an original design manufacturer for other companies. The company started privatization in late 2019.  History  The company was founded in 1990 in Taiwan as Top Victory Electronics, as the mainland China manufacturing plant of AOC International . In September 2005, TPV Technology acquired part of Philips' monitor and entry-level flat screen TV sets manufacturing business, making it the largest display manufacturer in the world, and TPV got the brand license for Philips monitors and Philips entry-level TV sets. In March 2008, TPV acquired a business operation from Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corporation. In June 2009 MMD Multimedia Displays...
Comverse Technology, Inc. was a technology company located in Woodbury, New York in the United States, that developed and marketed telecommunications software. The company focused on providing value-added services to telecommunication service providers, in particular to mobile network operators. Comverse Technology had several wholly or partly owned subsidiaries. The name Comverse is a fusion of the words communication and versatility. The company was founded in 1982, and went public on the Nasdaq Stock Market in 1986. Led by co-founder and CEO Jacob Kobi Alexander, the company originally specialized in centralized hardwaresoftware systems for voice and fax messaging and sold them to telecommunications companies and other large enterprises. Much of its funding came from Israeli government subsidies and tax credits provided to research and development for hi-tech firms. By the mid-1990s, one of its most successful products allowed legal authorities and intelligence agencies to record and store data collected from intercepted communications. Starting in the late 1990s, Comverse's voice messaging software became its main product and the company grew rapidly with the surge in...
A technology roadmap is a flexible planning schedule to support strategic and long-range planning, by matching short-term and long-term goals with specific technology solutions. It is a plan that applies to a new product or process and may include using technology forecasting or technology scouting to identify suitable emerging technologies. It is a known technique to help manage the fuzzy front-end of innovation. It is also expected that roadmapping techniques may help companies to survive in turbulent environments and help them to plan in a more holistic way to include non-financial goals and drive towards a more sustainable development. Here roadmaps can be combined with other corporate foresight methods to facilitate systemic change. Developing a roadmap serves three primary purposes. Firstly, it aids in reaching a consensus on a set of needs and the technologies necessary to address them. Secondly, it offers a mechanism for forecasting technological advancements. Thirdly, it supplies a framework for planning and coordinating technology developments. Additionally, it can function as an analytical tool for charting the evolution and rise of new industries.  Process  The technology...
A hacker is most commonly a person who seeks unauthorized access to a computer system or network. The word is also used for a skilled programmer or computer enthusiast. In computer security, it may describe an intruder or an authorized specialist who tests systems and reports vulnerabilities. Programmer and free software communities apply the term to people who explore programmable systems, modify software, or find ways around technical limits. Its meaning depends on context, and communities disagree over who may claim it. The computing use of the term developed in student culture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology during the late 1950s and early 1960s. At MIT, hacking ranged from playful technical work and pranks to unauthorized interference. During the 1970s and 1980s, personal computers and modem-connected networks took hacker culture beyond academic laboratories. Publicized intrusions and arrests, the 1983 film WarGames, and computer-crime laws shifted public usage toward unauthorized access. Security consulting, conferences, coordinated vulnerability disclosure, and bug bounty programs later gave some hackers recognized professional roles. Hacker communities include programmer...
During the growth of the ancient civilizations, ancient technology was the result of advances in engineering in ancient times. These advances in the history of technology stimulated societies to adopt new ways of living and governance. This article includes the advances in technology and the development of several engineering sciences in historic times before the Middle Ages, which began after the fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476, the death of Justinian I in the 6th century, the coming of Islam in the 7th century, or the rise of Charlemagne in the 8th century. For technologies developed in medieval societies, see Medieval technology and Inventions in medieval Islam.  Ancient civilizations   Africa  Technology in Africa has a history stretching to the beginning of the human species, stretching back to the first evidence of tool use by hominid ancestors in the areas of Africa where humans are believed to have evolved. Africa saw the advent of some of the earliest ironworking technology in the Ar Mountains region of what is today Niger and the erection of some of the world's oldest monuments, pyramids, and towers in Egypt, Nubia, and North Africa. In Nubia and ancient...
Rimac Technology is a Croatian Automotive industry technology company and Tier 1 supplier specializing in electric vehicle components. A wholly owned subsidiary of Rimac Group, the company designs and manufactures battery systems, e-axles, and electronic control units for premium automotive manufacturers worldwide.  History  Rimac Technology originated as the technology division of Rimac Automobili, the electric hypercar manufacturer founded by Mate Rimac in 2009. Following the 2021 formation of Bugatti Rimac, a joint venture between Rimac and Porsche -Rimac Technology was established as an independent entity under the Rimac Group corporate structure to continue supplying electrification technology to external clients. The company is headquartered in Sveta Nedelja, Zagreb County, Croatia, with an additional RD office in Warwick, United Kingdom.  Rimac Campus  The Rimac Campus is the global headquarters and primary production facility of the Rimac Group, located in Kerestinec in the municipality of Sveta Nedelja, approximately 16 kilometres west of Zagreb city centre. Construction began in October 2021 and the facility became fully operational in 2024. The campus...
Sapphire Technology Limited is a Hong Kong-based technology company, which produces video cards for personal computers and workstations, motherboards, TV tuner cards, digital audio players and LCDTVs Founded in 2001, Sapphire's products are based on ATIAMD GPUs, and both ATIAMD and Intel motherboard chipset technology. The company is the largest supplier of AMD-based video cards in the world. Sapphire was the first company to release a video card with a HDMI connector. Sapphire was the first company to release a video card having clock speed of 1000 MHz with the release of the Sapphire Atomic Edition HD 4890.  Manufacturing facilities  As of 2007, Sapphire has two ISO 9001 and ISO 14001-certified manufacturing facilities in Dongguan, China, which have a monthly production capacity of 1.8 million video cards. The manufacturing facility had an area of about 250,000 m2 used by 16 independent production lines as of May 2005.  Manufacturing process  Sapphire buys PCBs from an external contractor, but they place components on the PCB and reflow them in their own factories. AMD GPUs have historically been used in their products.  Gallery   See also... 
Low technology low tech adjective forms: low-technology, low-tech, lo-tech is simple technology, as opposed to high technology. In addition, low tech is related to the concept of mid-tech, that is a balance between low-tech and high-tech, which combines the efficiency and versatility of high tech with low tech's potential for autonomy and resilience.  History   Historical origin  Primitive technologies such as bushcraft, tools that use wood, stone, wool, etc. can be seen as low-tech, as can pre-Industrial Revolution machines such as windmills or sailboats.  In the 1970s  The economic boom after the Vietnam War resulted in a doubt on progress, technology and growth at the beginning of the 70s, notably with through the report The Limits to Growth . Many have sought to define what soft technologies are, leading to a low-tech movement. Such technologies have been described as intermediaries , liberating , or even democratic. Thus, a philosophy of advocating a widespread use of soft technologies was developed in the United States, and many studies were carried out in those years, in particular by researchers like Langdon Winner....
Legal technology, also known as legal tech, refers to the use of technology and software to provide legal services and support the legal industry. Legal technology encompasses the use of traditional software architecture and web technologies, such as searchable databases of case law and other legal authority, as well as machine learning technologies, such as those used to automatically search documents for purposes of due diligence or discovery. Work on making contracts more easy to use involve aspects of user experience design, and artificial intelligence. Alternative legal service providers increasingly use legal technology to deliver transactional legal work at scale, helping in-house legal teams improve service delivery, streamline operations, and redirect capacity to higher-value tasks.  Definitions  Legal technology traditionally referred to the application of technology and software to help individual lawyers, law firms, medium and large scale businesses with practice management, document automation, document storage, billing, accounting and electronic discovery.  History  From the 1970s through to the 1990s there were several academic attempts to formalize legal...
Renaissance Technologies LLC is an American hedge fund based in East Setauket, New York, on Long Island, that specializes in systematic trading using quantitative models derived from mathematical and statistical analysis. Renaissance originated as Monemetrics, founded in 1978 by mathematician and former Cold War codebreaker Jim Simons, and adopted its current name in 1982. In 1988, the firm established the Medallion Fund, a form of Leonard Baum's mathematical models expanded by algebraist James Ax, to explore correlations from which it could profit. The hedge fund was named Medallion in honor of the math awards Simons and Ax had won. Simons ran Renaissance until his retirement in late 2009, when he was succeeded by Peter Brown and Robert Mercer. He continued to play a role at the firm as non-executive chairman until 2021. He remained invested in its funds, particularly the Medallion fund, until his death in 2024. The company is now run by Brown . Both were computer scientists specializing in computational linguistics who joined Renaissance in 1993 from IBM Research. The fund has 165 billion in discretionary assets under management...
Travel technology also called tourism technology, and hospitality automation is the application of Information Technology or Information and Communications Technology in the travel, tourism and hospitality industry. Some forms of travel technology are flight tracking, pre-travel planning through online travel agencies, and systems that allow tourists to review their experiences. Travel technology was originally associated with the computer reservations system of the airline industry, but is now used more inclusively, incorporating the broader tourism sector as well as its subset the hospitality industry.  Online travel agencies  Booking engines allow easy access for consumers and travel professionals the systems enable individuals to make reservations and compare prices. Online travel agencies such as expedia.com, are a large contribution to how the travel and tourism industries have changed due to technology. These online agencies help users plan and book trips and provide comparisons of hotels, flights, vacation packages, prices and more, all in one place. The change from of-person to online travel agencies gives the customer more power in planning their trip...
IGEL Technology is a multinational software company best known for its operating system, IGEL OS.  History  Privately held, the original investor in IGEL was C Melchers GmbH  Co. KG which founded the company in 2002 in Bremen, Germany. In 2021, TA Associates became the majority investor in IGEL. Melchers continues to maintain an equity interest in the company. Originally, IGEL was a manufacturer of hardware thin clients. The company permanently exited the hardware business in 2020, and since then, IGEL has since been solely a software company. Its headquarters are in Bremen, Germany with North American operations out of Fort Lauderdale.  Products  IGEL's primary product is IGEL OS, a Linux-based endpoint device operating system.  Strategic Alliances  IGEL holds strategic alliances through its IGEL Ready program with software companies such as Microsoft, CrowdStrike, Palo Alto Networks, Island, Citrix, Omnissa, Amazon, Okta, and ImprivataIGEL as well as healthcare-sector OEMs including Imprivata. For hardware, IGEL holds strategic alliances with HP and LG Business Solutions each of whom offers IGEL OS integrated into select endpoint devices...
Food technology is a branch of food science that addresses the production, preservation, quality control and research and development of food products. It may also be understood as the science of ensuring that a society is food secure and has access to safe food that meets quality standards. Early scientific research into food technology concentrated on food preservation. Nicolas Appert's development in 1810 of the canning process was a decisive event. The process wasn't called canning then and Appert did not really know the principle on which his process worked, but canning has had a major impact on food preservation techniques. Louis Pasteur's research on the spoilage of wine and his description of how to avoid spoilage in 1864, was an early attempt to apply scientific knowledge to food handling. Besides research into wine spoilage, Pasteur researched the production of alcohol, vinegar, wines and beer, and the souring of milk. He developed pasteurization - the process of heating milk and milk products to destroy food spoilage and disease-producing organisms. In his research into food technology, Pasteur became the pioneer into bacteriology and of modern preventive medicine. 2...
Nuclear technology is technology that involves the nuclear reactions of atomic nuclei. Among the notable nuclear technologies are nuclear reactors, nuclear medicine and nuclear weapons. It is also used, among other things, in smoke detectors and gun sights.  History and scientific background   Discovery  The vast majority of common, natural phenomena on Earth only involve gravity and electromagnetism, and not nuclear reactions. This is because atomic nuclei are generally kept apart because they contain positive electrical charges and therefore repel each other. In 1896, Henri Becquerel was investigating phosphorescence in uranium salts when he discovered a new phenomenon which came to be called radioactivity. He, Pierre Curie and Marie Curie began investigating the phenomenon. In the process, they isolated the element radium, which is highly radioactive. They discovered that radioactive materials produce intense, penetrating rays of three distinct sorts, which they labeled alpha, beta, and gamma after the first three Greek letters. Some of these kinds of radiation could pass through ordinary matter, and all of them could be harmful in large amounts. All of the early researchers...
Technology transfer , also called transfer of technology , is the process of transferring technology from the person or organization that owns or holds it to another person or organization, in an attempt to transform inventions and scientific outcomes into new products and services that benefit society. Technology transfer is closely related to and may arguably be considered a subset of knowledge transfer. A comprehensive definition of technology transfer today includes the notion of collaborative process as it became clear that global challenges could be resolved only through the development of global solutions. Knowledge and technology transfer plays a crucial role in connecting innovation stakeholders and moving inventions from creators to public and private users. Intellectual property is an important instrument of technology transfer, as it establishes an environment conducive to sharing research results and technologies. Analysis in 2003 showed that the context, or environment, and motives of each organization involved will influence the method of technology transfer employed. The motives behind the technology transfer were not necessarily homogenous...
Honda Advanced Technology is part of Honda's long-standing research and development program focused on building new models for their automotive products and automotive-related technologies, with many of the advances pertaining to engine technology. Honda's research has led to practical solutions ranging from fuel-efficient vehicles and engines, to more sophisticated applications such as the humanoid robot, ASIMO, and the Honda HA-420 Honda-jet, a six-passenger business jet.  Engine and Environmental Technology   i-VTEC  i-VTEC is the acronym for intelligent VTEC Variable Valve Timing and Lift Electronic Control, an evolution of Honda's VTEC engine. The i-VTEC engine works by controlling the timing and lifting of the camshafts depending on engine speeds. The valves open a small amount during low engine speeds to achieve optimal fuel efficiency. The valves will open wider at higher engine speeds to achieve higher performance. Honda i-VTEC has VTC continuously variable timing of camshaft phasing on the intake camshaft of DOHC VTEC engines. The technology first appeared on Honda's K-series four-cylinder engine family in 2001 In the United States, the technology...
Newton, Massachusetts, USA-based Barrett Technology was founded by Bill Townsend in 1988. The company has two divisions: Barrett Drive Systems and Barrett Medical. The main product line for Barrett Medical is Burt , an FDA-registered Class-II robot designed and produced in Barrett's ISO 13485-Certified facility to help patients recover from stroke, traumatic brain injury, spinal-cord injury, and other neurological impairments. Burt is protected by US Patents as recently as 2025 with international equivalents. The president of Barrett Medical is Matt Rigby. The main product line for Barrett Drive Systems is the Puck brushless servomotor controllerencoder. Inspired by Gill Pratt, Barrett Drive System's Puck is a miniature brushless motor controller developed by Barrett Technology with funding from US NASA and DOE contracts. Designed to replace traditional motor controllers, the Puck integrates electronic space-vector commutation, power amplification, and a magnetic encoder into a single compact solid-state module that mounts directly to the tail-end of any brushless motor. Puck is the world's smallest brushless servomotor controller at...
The Indian Institutes of Technology are a network of autonomous public engineering, technology and research universities in India. Established in 1950, they are under the purview of the Ministry of Education of the Government of India and are governed by the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961. The Act designates them as Institutes of National Importance and lays down their powers, duties, and governance framework as the country's premier institutions in the field of technology. There are currently 23 IITs functioning under this act. Each IIT operates autonomously and is linked to the others through a common council called the IIT Council, which oversees their administration. The Minister of Education serves as the ex officio chairperson of the IIT Council.  History  In the late 1940s, a 22-member committee, headed by Nalini Ranjan Sarkar, recommended the establishment of these institutions in various parts of India, along the lines of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , with affiliated secondary institutions. The first Indian Institute of Technology was founded in May 1950 at the site of the Hijli Detention Camp in Kharagpur, West Bengal. The name Indian Institute...
Bally Technologies, Inc. is an American manufacturer of slot machines and other gambling technology based in Enterprise, Nevada. It is owned by Light  Wonder. The company was founded in 1968 as Advanced Patent Technology. It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and in 1996 acquired Bally Gaming International, a former division of Bally Manufacturing. In 2006, the entire company adopted the Bally name. Scientific Games acquired the company in 2014. Today, Bally constitutes one of the three brands of Light  Wonder, along with WMS and Shuffle Master.  History   Advanced Patent Technology  Advanced Patent Technology was founded in 1968 by Jack Solomon and Alvin Snaper, entrepreneurs who held patents in fields including medicine, optics, and electronics. The company's stock was publicly offered the next year. Its first 12 years were spent in the development stage. It boasted a portfolio of over 80 patents, but generated considerable publicity for five in particular: an ultrasonic fluidic fuel system for combustion engines, an ultrasonic endodontics device, a louvered television screen, an ultrasonic meat tenderizer, and an ultrasonic dry cleaning...
Argument technology is a sub-field of collective intelligence and artificial intelligence that focuses on applying computational techniques to the creation, identification, analysis, navigation, evaluation and visualisation of arguments and debates. In the 1980s and 1990s, philosophical theories of arguments in general, and argumentation theory in particular, were leveraged to handle key computational challenges, such as modeling non-monotonic and defeasible reasoning and designing robust coordination protocols for multi-agent systems. At the same time, mechanisms for computing semantics of Argumentation frameworks were introduced as a way of providing a calculus of opposition for computing what it is reasonable to believe in the context of conflicting arguments. With these foundations in place, the area was kick-started by a workshop held in the Scottish Highlands in 2000, the result of which was a book coauthored by philosophers of argument, rhetoricians, legal scholars and AI researchers. Since then, the area has been supported by various dedicated events such as the International Workshop on Computational Models of Natural Argument which has run annually since 2001 the International...
Technology education is the study of technology, in which students learn about the processes and knowledge related to technology. As a field of study, it covers the human's ability to shape and change the physical world to meet needs, by manipulating materials and tools with techniques. It addresses the disconnect between wide usage and the lack of knowledge about technical components of technologies used and how to fix them. This emergent discipline seeks to contribute to the learners' overall scientific and technological literacy, and technacy. Technology education should not be confused with educational technology. Educational technology focuses on a narrower subset of technology use that centers on technology in and for education, as opposed to technology education's focus on technology's use in general.  History  Technology education is an offshoot of the Industrial Arts tradition in the United States and the Craft teaching or vocational education in other countries. In 1980, through what was called the Futuring Project, the name of industrial arts education was changed to be technology education in New York State the goal of this movement was to increase students...
Subsea technology involves fully submerged ocean equipment, operations, or applications, especially when some distance offshore, in deep ocean waters, or on the seabed. The term subsea is frequently used in connection with oceanography, marine or ocean engineering, ocean exploration, remotely operated vehicle autonomous underwater vehicles , submarine communications or power cables, underwater habitats, seafloor mineral mining, oil and gas, and offshore wind power.  Oil and gas  Oil and gas fields reside beneath many inland waters and offshore areas around the world, and in the oil and gas industry the term subsea relates to the exploration, drilling and development of oil and gas fields in these underwater locations. Under water oil fields and facilities are generically referred to using a subsea prefix, such as subsea well, subsea field, subsea project, and subsea developments. Subsea oil field developments are usually split into Shallow water and Deepwater categories to distinguish between the different facilities and approaches that are needed. The term shallow water or shelf is used for very shallow water depths where bottom-founded facilities like jackup drilling...
Industrial technology is the use of engineering and manufacturing technology to make production faster, simpler, and more efficient. The industrial technology field employs creative and technically proficient individuals who can help a company achieve efficient and profitable productivity. Industrial technology programs typically include instruction in optimization theory, human factors, organizational behavior, industrial processes, industrial planning procedures, computer applications, and report and presentation preparation. Planning and designing manufacturing processes and equipment is the main aspect of being an industrial technologist. An industrial technologist is often responsible for implementing certain designs and processes.  Accreditation and certification  The USA-based Association of Technology, Management, and Applied Engineering , accredits selected collegiate programs in Industrial Technology in the USA. An instructor or graduate of an Industrial Technology program may choose to become a Certified Technology Manager by sitting for a rigorous exam administered by ATMAE covering Production Planning  Control, Safety, Quality, and ManagementSupervision...
An electric vehicle is a vehicle propelled mostly by electric power. EVs encompass electric cars and other electric road vehicles as well as other types of land vehicles, such as electric rail vehicles . It also includes electric watercraft , aircraft , and spacecraft. EVs originated in the late 19th century. Electricity was among the preferred methods for powering early motor vehicles because it was quieter, provided comfort, and ease of operation. However, its limited range hindered mass adoption throughout the 20th century. Internal combustion engines were the dominant propulsion mechanisms for cars and trucks for about 100 years, although electricity-powered locomotion became commonplace in other vehicle types, such as overhead line-powered mass transit vehicles, as well as special purpose vehicles such as mobility scooters. Since the late 20th century, technological advances in lithium batteries-which offer superior energy density and current output versus lead-acid batteries-has revived public interest as zero-emission vehicle options. Manufacturers mostly...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 817 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In computer science, online machine learning is a method of machine learning in which data becomes available in a sequential order and is used to update the best predictor for future data at each step, as opposed to batch learning techniques which generate the best predictor by learning on the entire training data set at once. Online learning is a common technique used in areas of machine learning where it is computationally infeasible to train over the entire dataset, requiring the need of out-of-core algorithms. It is also used in situations where it is necessary for the algorithm to dynamically adapt to new patterns in the data, or when the data itself is generated as a function of time, e.g., prediction of prices in the financial international markets. Online learning algorithms may be prone to catastrophic interference, a problem that can be addressed by incremental learning approaches. Online machine learning algorithms find applications in a wide variety of fields such as sponsored search to maximize ad revenue, portfolio optimization, shortest path prediction with stochastic weights, e.g. traffic on roads for a maps application, spam filtering, real-time fraud detection, dynamic...
A convolutional neural network is a type of feedforward neural network that learns features via filter optimization. This type of deep learning network has been applied to process and make predictions from many different types of data including text, images and audio. CNNs are the de-facto standard in deep learning-based approaches to computer vision and image processing, and have only recently been replaced-in some cases-by newer architectures such as the transformer. Vanishing gradients and exploding gradients, seen during backpropagation in earlier neural networks, are prevented by the regularization that comes from using shared weights over fewer connections. For example, for each neuron in the fully-connected layer, 10,000 weights would be required for processing an image sized 100  100 pixels. However, applying cascaded convolution kernels, only 25 weights for each convolutional layer are required to process 5x5-sized tiles. Higher-layer features are extracted from wider context windows, compared to lower-layer features. Some applications of CNNs include: image and video recognition, recommender systems, image classification, image segmentation...
The following tables are a comparison of machine learning software such as software frameworks, libraries, and computer programs used for machine learning.  Machine learning software   Other comparisons   Machine learning helper libraries and platforms  Apache OpenNLP - natural language processing toolkit CUDA - GPU computing platform used to accelerate machine learning and deep learning workloads Horovod - distributed training framework for deep learning Hugging Face Transformers - library of pretrained transformer models built on other machine learning frameworks Kubeflow - machine learning platform for Kubernetes Mallet - toolkit for natural language processing and text analysis NumPy - numerical computing library used in machine learning OpenCV - computer vision library with machine learning functions ONN - open format for representing machine learning models pandas - data analysis and data preparation library used in machine learning PlaidML - tensor compiler and backend for machine learning frameworks Polars - Dataframe library used for machine learning data preparation and analysis PyArrow - columnar data library used in machine learning data processing ROOT TMVA...
Learning is the process of acquiring new understanding, knowledge, behavior, skills, values, attitudes, and preferences. The ability to learn is possessed by humans, other animals, and some machines. There is also evidence for some kind of learning in certain plants. Some learning is immediate, induced by a single event , but much skill and knowledge accumulate from repeated experiences. The changes induced by learning often last a lifetime, and it is hard to distinguish learned material that seems to be lost from that which cannot be retrieved. Human learning begins at birth and may even start before birth and continues until death as a consequence of ongoing interactions between people and their environment. The nature and processes involved in learning are studied in many established fields including educational psychology, neuropsychology, experimental psychology, Cognitive science, and pedagogy, as well as emerging fields of knowledge e.g. with a shared interest in the topic of learning from safety events such as incidents or accidents, or in collaborative learning health systems. Research in such fields has led to the significant identification...
Lungotevere della Magliana is the stretch of the urban road along the Tiber that connects via del Ponte della Magliana to via della Magliana, in Rome's Portuense district. The lungotevere is named after Magliana, which is a place and estate in the outskirts of Rome, formerly owned by the ancient Roman gens of the Manilii , and famous for the hunting parties given there by Pope Leo  during the Renaissance. The name of the road was established by resolution of the city council of 19 February 1971. This is the southernmost part of the lungotevere of the Tiber's right bank.  Notes   Bibliografia  Rendina, Claudio Paradisi, Donatella . Le strade di Roma. Volume secondo E-O. Rome: Newton Compton Editori. ISBN 88-541-0209-1.
Ginoondan is a rural locality in the North Burnett Region, Queensland, Australia. In the 2021 census, Ginoondan had a population of 12 people.  Geography  The locality is bounded to the west and south-west by Barambah Creek. The Burnett Highway enters the locality from the west and exits to the south . Scrubby Mountain is in the north-east of the locality 25.5710S 151.8088E  -25.5710 151.8088 , rising to 332 metres above sea level. The land use is predominantly grazing on native vegetation with some crop growing in the south-west of the locality.  History  Ginoondan Provisional School opened on 26 October 1903. On 1 January 1909, it became Ginoondan State School. It closed in 1949. It was on the eastern corner of the Burnett Highway and the Gayndah Mount Perry Road 25.59762S 151.73406E  -25.59762 151.73406 .  Demographics  In the 2016 census, Ginoondan had a population of 16 people. In the 2021 census, Ginoondan had a population of 12 people.  Education  There are no schools in Ginoondan. The nearest government primary schools are Gayndah State School in...
Bride and Groom is an old-time radio human-interest program in the United States. It was broadcast on ABC from November 26, 1945, to September 15, 1950. Each episode featured an engaged couple who would be married during the broadcast, then showered with gifts. In 1951, it was adapted as a television show of the same name.  Format  Each episode centred on a couple engaged to be married. An episode would begin with host John Nelson interviewing the couple, with questions about how the two met and their courtship. Announcer Jack McElroy would sing a song for the couple, who would then exit to an adjacent chapel to be married by one of around 30 clergymen retained by the show. During the wedding ceremony, which was not recorded, Nelson would chat with members of the audience. He would usually speak with married couples who were celebrating significant anniversary milestones, who would be given gifts such as matching wristwatches. After the ceremony, the newlyweds returned to the studio where they received wedding gifts provided by sponsors, such as refrigerators, stoves, silverware and jewelry, as a reward for participating in the program. The 30-minute program was sponsored by Sterling...
Ernst Hjalmar Waloddi Weibull was a Swedish engineer, materials scientist, and applied mathematician. The Weibull distribution is named after him.  Education and career  Weibull was born 18 June 1887 in the town of Vittskvle in Sweden. The family originated from the village WeiblVedbl in Haderslev, Denmark. He joined the Swedish Coast Guard in 1905 as a midshipman. He moved up the ranks with promotion to sublieutenant in 1907, Captain in 1916 and Major in 1940. While in the coast guard he took courses at the Royal Institute of Technology. In 1924 he graduated and became a full professor. He obtained his doctorate from the University of Uppsala in 1932. He was employed in Swedish and German industry as a consulting engineer. In 1914, while on expeditions to the Mediterranean, the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean on the research ship Albatross, Weibull wrote his first paper on the propagation of explosive waves. He developed the technique of using explosive charges to determine the type of ocean bottom sediments and their thickness. The same technique is still used today in offshore oil exploration.  Research contributions  In 1939 he published...
The eighth season of the American television sitcom Frasier aired on NBC from October 24, 2000 to May 22, 2001.  Cast   Main  Kelsey Grammer as Frasier Crane Jane Leeves as Daphne Moon David Hyde Pierce as Niles Crane Peri Gilpin as Roz Doyle John Mahoney as Martin Crane  Recurring  Edward Hibbert as Gil Chesterton Patrick Kerr as Noel Shempsky Tom McGowan as Kenny Daly  Special guest   Special appearance by  John Glenn as himself  Guest  Tushka Bergen as Miranda Trevor Einhorn as Frederick Crane Patrick Macnee as Cecil Hedley Charlotte Ross as Monica Illeana Douglas as Kenny's Wife Barbara Babcock as Penelope Janvier John Michael Higgins as William Jennifer Coolidge as Frederica Brian Klugman as Kirby Gardner Bebe Neuwirth as Lilith Sternin  Episodes   References   External links  Frasier at IMDb
Haidergarh is a town and a nagar panchayat in the Barabanki district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.  Demographics  As of the 2011 Indian census, Haidergarh had a population of 17,200. Males constitute for 53 of the population and females 47. Haidergarh has an average literacy rate of 58, lower than the national average of 59.5: male literacy is at 64, and female literacy is at 51. In Haidergarh, 18.0 of the population is under 6 years of age.  Location  The town Haidergarh is located on Lucknow-Varanasi Highway. It is situated about 55 km from Lucknow and is well-connected by rail and road networks. Haidergarh is accessible from Ayodhya , Varanasi , as well as Raibareli .  References 
Street Dreams is a 2009 American film directed by Chris Zamoscianyk, produced by Rob Dyrdek, Jason Bergh and Sal Masekela and written by Elisa Delson, Rob Dyrdek, and Nino Scalia. Derrick Cabrera has a dream of being sponsored and one day going pro. He is an up-and-coming street skateboarder from Chicago with all the talent but has the world against him. Parents, friends and schoolmates can't understand how Derrick has so much passion for something that has no future in their eyes. As everyone pushes him around, including his own father, girlfriend, and even one of his closest friends, he doesn't give up on both achieving his dreams, and proving everyone wrong.  Plot  Derrick Cabrera is an up-and-coming street skateboarder from Chicago with dreams of going pro. He and his fellow skateboarding friends Cash , Reese , and Troy , as well as filmographer friend Mikey , spend their days skating at spots around the city, being pursued by cops for skating where they shouldn't be, and planning how to make names for themselves. In Derrick's case, this means landing one special trick on-camera for a sponsorship...
Jeff Kealty is an American former professional ice hockey defenseman and current assistant general manager of the San Jose Sharks of the National Hockey League . He was drafted in the first round, 22nd overall, by the Quebec Nordiques in the 1994 NHL entry draft. However, he never played in the National Hockey League, retiring after playing just 71 games with the Milwaukee Admirals of the International Hockey League. After retiring from playing, Kealty became a scout for the Nashville Predators organization. On July 25, 2007, Kealty was named the team's Chief Amateur Scout. On December 1, 2017, Nashville Predators President of Hockey OperationsGeneral Manager David Poile announced that Kealty had been promoted to Director of Player Personnel, assisting Poile on all player personnel decisions, in addition to the duties he was already responsible for as Chief Amateur Scout. On July 17, 2026, Kealty left the Nashville Predators and joined the San Jose Sharks as an assistant general manager, overseeing the team's scouting staff and working with General Manager Mike Grier on all aspects of Hockey Operations.  Career statistics   Regular season and... 
2012 Minnesota Amendment 1 also called Minnesota Marriage Amendment or Minnesota Gay Marriage Amendment was a legislatively referred constitutional amendment proposed to ban marriage between same-sex couples in the state of Minnesota, that appeared on the ballot on November 6, 2012. It was rejected by 51.19 of voters.  Legislative approval  The Amendment began as a bill proposed in the Minnesota Senate on April 27, 2011, by Warren Limmer, Dave Thompson, Sean Nienow, Dan Hall, and Pam Wolf. On May 11, 2011, the Minnesota Senate passed a bill to place a proposed amendment to the state constitution on the ballot that would ban same-sex marriage. The vote was 37-27, with all Republicans and one Democrat voting for the amendment. An identical bill was passed by the House on May 21 the vote was 70-62 with two Democrats and all but four Republicans voting for the amendment. The proposed amendment was on the ballot on November 6, 2012. The proposed amendment read: Only a union of one man and one woman shall be valid or recognized as a marriage in Minnesota. It did not refer to civil unions or domestic partnerships. The question being presented to voters on the ballot read: Shall...
Olga is a 2004 Brazilian biographical drama film directed by Jayme Monjardim from a screenplay by Rita Buzzar, based on the 1985 biography of the same name by Fernando Morais. It was Brazil's submission to the 77th Academy Awards for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, but was not accepted as a nominee. The film was a produced by Nexus Cinema in conjunction with Globo Filmes and Lumiere. Olga was seen by over three million viewers and won more than 20 awards in Brazil and internationally. It is one of several Brazilian films to treat Jewish themes.  Plot  Olga is the feature-film chronicle of the German Jew Olga Benrio Prestes' life and times. A communist activist since her youth, Olga is persecuted by the police and flees to Moscow, where she undergoes military training. She is put in charge of escorting Lus Carlos Prestes to Brazil to lead the Communist Uprising of 1935, falling in love with him along the way. With the failure of the uprising, Olga is arrested alongside Prestes. Seven-month pregnant Olga is extradited by President Vargas' Government to Nazi Germany, where she gives birth to her daughter Anita Leocdia while incarcerated. Separated from...
In geotechnical engineering, bearing capacity is the capacity of soil to support the loads applied to the ground. The bearing capacity of soil is the maximum average contact pressure between the foundation and the soil which should not produce shear failure in the soil. Ultimate bearing capacity is the theoretical maximum pressure which can be supported without failure allowable bearing capacity is the ultimate bearing capacity divided by a factor of safety. Sometimes, on soft soil sites, large settlements may occur under loaded foundations without actual shear failure occurring in such cases, the allowable bearing capacity is based on the maximum allowable settlement. The allowable bearing pressure is the maximum pressure that can be applied to the soil without causing failure. The ultimate bearing capacity, on the other hand, is the maximum pressure that can be applied to the soil before it fails. There are three modes of failure that limit bearing capacity: general shear failure, local shear failure, and punching shear failure. It depends upon the shear strength of soil as well as shape, size, depth and type of foundation.  Introduction  A foundation is...
Erbach is an Ortsgemeinde - a municipality belonging to a Verbandsgemeinde, a kind of collective municipality - in the Rhein-Hunsrck-Kreis in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It belongs to the Verbandsgemeinde Simmern-Rheinbllen, whose seat is in Simmern.  Geography   Location  The municipality lies in the eastern Hunsrck right on the Autobahn A 61. Southeast of the village is the edge of the Binger Wald .  History  Erbach belonged to the Electorate of the Palatinate Altes Gericht . Beginning in 1794, Erbach lay under French rule. In 1814 it was assigned to the Kingdom of Prussia at the Congress of Vienna. Since 1947, it has been part of the then newly founded state of Rhineland-Palatinate.  Population development  What follows is a table of the municipality's population figures for selected years since the early 19th century :  Politics   Municipal council  The council is made up of 6 council members, who were elected at the municipal election held on 7 June 2009, and the honorary mayor as chairman.  Mayor  Erbach's mayor is Paul Schirra.  Culture and... 
Franois Salque is a French classical cellist and academic teacher. He has recorded especially chamber music.  Life and career  A graduate from Yale University, Salque teaches at the Haute cole de musique de Lausanne and at the Conservatoire de Paris. Salque has played and recorded chamber music with ric Le Sage, Alexandre Tharaud, Emmanuel Pahud and Vincent Peirani. Salque also played in the Ysae Quartet from 2000 to 2004, recording Faur, Magnard, Haydn, Schumann, Boucourechliev, but also little known works or fragments by Beethoven, the piano quintet by Csar Franck and the Clarinet Quintet by Mozart . Nicolas Bacri, Karol Beffa, Thierry Escaich, Bruno Mantovani and Krystof Maratka have dedicated works to Salque.  Discography  Salque has recorded for the on, Alpha, Arion, Lyrinx, Nave, RCA, Sony and Zig-Zag Territoires labels. Salque's numerous recordings have received awards from the Diapason d'or de l'anne, Chocs of the Le Monde de la musique, 10 of Rpertoire des disques compacts, Grand Prix du disque de l'Acadmie Charles-Cros, Victoires de la Musique. Beethoven, Cello Sonatas - Franois Salque, cello ric Le Sage, piano...
Agnes Drer ne Frey was the wife of the German artist Albrecht Drer. During their marriage, which was childless, she was portrayed several times by Drer. Agnes Drer was the daughter of the coppersmith and lute maker Hans Frey and his wife Anna, a member of the patrician family Rummel.  Marriage to Albrecht Drer  On 7 July 1494 Agnes married Albrecht Drer, who was forced to stop his grand tour of Europe by his parents in order to marry her. According to the family chronicle, she had a dowry of 200 guilders. The first known drawing of Agnes is from 1494. Agnes was mostly responsible for the marketing of her husband's prints. They regularly visited fairs in order to sell his engravings, but usually sold his prints at the Nuremberg weekly market. Their participation in fairs at Leipzig and Frankfurt are also documented. From September 1505 until May 1506 she did not return to her hometown from a visit to Frankfurt, probably because plague had broken out in Nuremberg. During her husband's second trip to Italy, she ran the workshop. In the years 1520 and 1521 the couple traveled together in the Netherlands. The last known portrait of her, which was painted on their...
Candida Natiello Colosimo Vietri di Potenza, 17 November 1878 - Florence, 25 April 1972 was an Italian-American painter, student of Howard Helmick, Red Cross nurse and philanthropist.  Early life  Candida Natiello, later Colosimo sometimes mistakenly called Collosino or Colosino, daughter of Gerardo Natiello and Filomena Petrone, derived from a wealthy family of landed gentry who anyway left Italy to move to Americas. In early 1880, the father decided to leave Naples to reach Montevideo come back to Europe he took the decision to sail for New York City, where the all family disembarked in March 1882. It seems that there were the reasons to start a new life in America, but the sudden death of her father changed quickly their lives. Through the phase of mourning and the difficulties of settling in a new country, the mother tried a new relationship with Giuseppe Colosimo, man who later married happily.  Life in Washington, D.C.  In 1893 the Colosimos moved to Washington, D.C., where Giuseppe, known tailor master, was already included in the economic and social life of the city. In the Nineties, as a student, Candida participated in several exhibitions of paintings...
Rayat Shikshan Sanstha's Karmaveer Bhaurao Patil College Vashi Navi Mumbai is a college in Juhu Nagar Navi Mumbai. The college was established in 1979 and was affiliated with the University of Mumbai, but is now conferred with Autonomy since 2018 and attained empowered status in 2023. The college is named after Karmaveer Bhaurao Patil, a social activist and educationist and the founder of the Rayat Education Society. In 2024 the College was reccredited by NAAC with an A CGPA 3.51  'Best College Award' by the University of Mumbai. The college offers 3 year Bachelor's and 2 year master's degrees in the fields of Arts - Psychology, english, geography, geoinformatics, economics. In Science- Chemistry, physics, Mathematics, Microbiology, biotechnology, technology, and commerce. It also offers professional courses like Information Technology , Computer Science , Data Science, PG Diploma in Medical Lab Technology, Bachelor in Account and Finanace , Bachelor in Banking and Insurance , Logistics  Supply Management. It also has a junior college I and II which offers Higher Secondary courses in Arts, Commerce...
Charles Franois Philibert Masson was a Frenchman who is notable for the books that he published. His Secret Memoirs of the Court of St Petersburg described the court of Catherine the Great and Paul I of Russia. They are still in print. Charles Franois Philibert Masson was a member of the Institut de France He started his career as an apprentice watchmaker in Neuchtel, but he was more interested in the arts and traveled to Russia where he became the tutor of the children of Count Nikolai Saltykov, the Minister of War. The count made him his major domus. He made himself popular in the lite of Saint Petersburg through his wit, his taste in literature and his conversation. He became private secretary to grandduke Alexander of Russia, the man who became Tsar Alexander I in 1805. Charles Franois Philibert Masson was popular in the great houses of Saint Petersburg and at court but the tyrannical Tsar Paul I expelled him from Russia as an outspoken sympathiser of the French Revolution. He lived in Germany for a while before returning to France where he published his Mmoires secrets sur la Russie. At the time of his death he worked as a French government...
Music Machine may also refer to: The Music Machine, a 1960s American rock band The Music Machine , 1979 Music Machine , a series of children's music albums and videos by Candle, including: Music Machine II, 1983 The Music Machine , a defunt live-music venue in West Los Angeles, established in 1982 Music Machine , 2002 Music Machine, a 2003 album by Erik Norlander KOKO , a live-music venue in London, formerly known as The Music Machine The Music Machine starring Jet-Boot Jack, US title of the 1983 video game Jet-Boot Jack The Music Machine , see List of Atari 2600 games Music Machine, a video release by Hi-5 RAM Music Machine, a music add-on for the Z Spectrum
Calypso is a style of music that originated in Trinidad and Tobago from Afro-Trinidadians during the early- to mid-19th century and spread to the rest of the Caribbean Antilles by the mid-20th century. Its rhythms can be traced back to West African Kaiso and the arrival of French planters and their slaves from the French Antilles in the 18th century. It is characterized by highly rhythmic and harmonic vocals, and was historically most often sung in a French creole and led by a griot. As calypso developed, the role of the griot became known as a chantuelle and eventually, calypsonian. As English replaced patois as the dominant language, calypso migrated into English, and in so doing it attracted more attention from the government. It allowed the masses to challenge the actions of the unelected Governor and Legislative Council, and the elected town councils of Port of Spain and San Fernando. Calypso continued to play an important role in political expression. Calypso in the Caribbean includes a range of genres, including benna in Antigua and Barbuda spouge, a style of Barbadian popular music Dominica cadence-lypso, which mixed calypso with the cadence of Haiti and soca...
Concord Music Group was an American independent music company based in Beverly Hills, California, with worldwide distribution through Universal Music Group. The company specialized in recordings and music publishing. On April 1, 2015, Concord Music Group merged with Bicycle Music Company to become Concord Bicycle Music.  History  In 2004, Concord Records acquired Fantasy, Inc., owner of the Prestige, Fantasy, Milestone, Riverside, Specialty, and the post-Atlantic Stax catalog. Concord then combined with Fantasy to form the independent Concord Music Group . Also in 2004, CMG partnered with Starbucks to release the Ray Charles album Genius Loves Company, which won eight GRAMMY Awards, including Album of the Year. In 2005, CMG bought Telarc. On December 18, 2006, CMG announced the re-launch of the soul label Stax rights to the name were formerly held by Fantasy. New singers included Isaac Hayes and Angie Stone. In March 2007, Concord Music Group and Starbucks jointly founded the Hear Music label. Paul McCartney's album Memory Almost Full was released in June 2007. Hear Music went on to release albums by Joni Mitchell, James Taylor, Alanis Morissette, Carly...
Musical notation is any system used to visually represent music. Systems of notation generally represent the elements of a piece of music that are considered important for its performance in the context of a given musical tradition. The process of interpreting musical notation is often referred to as reading music. Distinct methods of notation have been invented throughout history by various cultures. Much information about ancient music notation is fragmentary. Even in the same time frames, different styles of music and different cultures use different music notation methods. For example, classical performers most often use sheet music using staves, time signatures, key signatures, and noteheads for writing and deciphering pieces. But even so, there are far more systems than just that. For instance, in professional country music, the Nashville Number System is the main method, and for string instruments such as guitar, it is quite common for tablature to be used by players. Musical notation uses ancient and modern symbols made upon any media such as stone, clay tablets, papyrus, parchment or manuscript paper printed using a printing press , a computer printer or...
Bubblegum music also called bubblegum pop or bubblegum rock is pop music in a catchy and upbeat style that is marketed for children and adolescents. The term also refers to a more specific rock and pop subgenre, originating in the United States in the late 1960s, that evolved from garage rock, novelty songs, and the Brill Building sound, and which was also defined by its target demographic of preteens and young teenagers. The Archies' 1969 hit Sugar, Sugar was a representative example that led to cartoon rock, a short-lived trend of Saturday-morning cartoon series that heavily featured pop rock songs in the bubblegum vein. Producer Jeffry Katz claimed credit for coining bubblegum, saying that when they discussed their target audience, they decided it was teenagers, the young kids. And at the time we used to be chewing bubblegum, and my partner and I used to look at it and laugh and say, 'Ah, this is like bubblegum music'. The term was then popularized by their boss, Buddah Records label executive Neil Bogart. It became often used as a pejorative for pop music that is perceived to be disposable and contrived. Most bubblegum acts were one-hit wonders notable exceptions included...
The Woodstock Music and Art Fair, commonly referred to as Woodstock, was a music festival held from August 15 to 18, 1969, on Max Yasgur's dairy farm in Bethel, New York, 60 miles southwest of the town of Woodstock. Billed as an Aquarian Exposition: 3 Days of Peace  Music, it attracted an audience of more than 460,000. Thirty-two acts performed outdoors despite overcast skies and sporadic rain. It was one of the largest music festivals in history and would become the peak musical event to reflect the counterculture of the 1960s. The festival has become widely regarded as a pivotal moment in popular music history, as well as a defining event for the silent and early baby boomer generations. The event's significance was reinforced by a 1970 documentary film, an accompanying soundtrack album, and a song written by Joni Mitchell that became a major hit for both Crosby, Stills, Nash  Young and Matthews Southern Comfort. Musical events bearing the Woodstock name were planned for anniversaries, including the 10th, 20th, 25th, 30th, 40th, and 50th. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine listed it as number 19 of the 50 moments that changed the history of rock and roll. In 2017, the festival...
Electronic music is music made with electronics. Electronic music may also refer to: Electronic dance music, electronic dance and pop music such as drum and bass, trance and techno Electronica, popular genre of electronic music, usually groove-based Electronic musical instrument, a musical instrument that produces its sounds using electronics Electronic  See also  List of electronic music genres Electronic rock
In digital music processing technology, quantization is the studio-software process of transforming performed musical notes, which may be imprecise, to a strict rhythm. The process results in notes being set on beats and exact fractions of beats. The purpose of quantization in music processing is to provide a more beat-accurate timing of sounds. Quantization is frequently applied to a record of MIDI notes created by the use of a musical keyboard or drum machine. Additionally, the phrase pitch quantization can refer to pitch correction used in audio production, such as using Auto-Tune.  Description  A frequent application of musical quantization lies within MIDI application software or hardware. MIDI sequencers typically include quantization in their manifest of edit commands. In this case, the dimensions of this timing grid are set beforehand. When one instructs the music application to quantize a certain group of MIDI notes in a song, the program moves each note to the closest point on the timing grid. MIDI notes can be quantized by Note On andor Note Off some digital audio workstations shift the entire note by moving both messages together. Sometimes, quantization is...
A music tracker, or simply a tracker, is a type of music sequencer. The music is represented as discrete musical notes positioned in several channels at chronological positions on a vertical timeline. A music tracker's user interface is traditionally number based. Notes, parameter changes, effects and other commands are entered with the keyboard into a grid of fixed time slots as codes consisting of letters, numbers and hexadecimal digits. Separate patterns have independent timelines a complete song consists of a master list of repeated patterns. Later trackers departed from solely using module files, adding other options both to the sound synthesis hosting generic synthesizers and effects or MIDI output and to the sequencing , effectively becoming general purpose sequencers with a different user interface. In the 2020s, tracker music is still featured in demoscene products for old hardware platforms and demoparties have often separate tracker music competitions. Tracker music may also be used in games which borrow aesthetics from past decades, or games with highly adaptive original soundtrack.  History   1987: Origins on the Amiga  The term tracker...
Believe SAS also known as Believe Music, and formerly Believe Digital is a global, invite-only digital music company headquartered in France that works with established artists and record labels. The company has several brands including TuneCore, Nuclear Blast, Nave, Groove Attack, Play Two and AllPoints. Believe exists in more than 50 countries in Europe, America, Asia and Africa.  History   Beginnings  The company was founded in 2005 by Denis Ladegaillerie, Arnaud Chiaramonti and Nicolas Laclias. The company operates from Paris, and was introduced on Euronext marketplace in June 2021 and it raised 300 million euros. Believe also has a subsidiary in Luxembourg which serves as a hub for the digital distribution.  Growth  Believe's expansion was fuelled by 60m growth capital investment from Ventech, Technology Crossover Ventures and Ange. In August 2016, the company acquired the French independent label Naive Records for 10m, seeking to improve value from the company's extensive back catalogue, and restarted the label's issuing of new recordings as physical CDs in 2017. In 2019, Believe expanded its presence in both Russia and India. The...
Rage also known as rage music, rage beats or rage rap is a subgenre of trap music that originated in the United States in the late 2010s. The early rage sound was characterized by short, looping, stereo-widened, future bass-influenced synthesizer lead hooks and basic, energetic trap rhythms. Among the early pioneers of rage rap were Playboi Carti, Lil Uzi Vert and Trippie Redd. Producer F1lthy helped develop a template for the style through his collective Working on Dying with members such as Bnyx. By the 2020s, the genre had developed through the influence of Carti's 2020 album Whole Lotta Red, with primary production credits from producer F1lthy. Artists such as Destroy Lonely and Ken Carson on Carti's Opium label, along with Yeat and SoFaygo, contributed to the popularization of the genre. Rage would evolve into a more extreme and experimental sound with artists such as OsamaSon, Che, Nettspend, Slayr, and Lucy Bedroque. This style was defined by the use of bass heavy 808s, screamed autotune vocals and aggressive production. According to Pitchfork, Slayr developed an accessible form of the genre on his 2025 mixtape Half Blood. The rage scene of the mid 2020s would also coalesce...
Syco Records, also known as S Records, Simco Limited, and Syco Music at various points in time, is a division of Syco Entertainment which originally operated from 2002 until 2020, that was relaunched in 2026. The label was founded by British entrepreneur, record executive and media personality Simon Cowell, who was formerly employed at Bertelsmann Music Group . Early-on, the label oversaw music releases by such acts as Robson  Jerome, Five, Westlife and Teletubbies. Eventually, BMG bought Cowell's share in both Syco Music and Syco Television. In 2010, Cowell and Sony Music entered a joint venture agreement that would see Cowell and Sony each own 50 of the new Syco Entertainment company, which encompassed both the previous Syco TV and Syco Music divisions. Over its original 18-year run, Syco had multiple, globally-known acts signed, such as the girl groups Fifth Harmony and Little Mix as well as the solo efforts of former Fifth Harmony member Camila Cabello, following her departure, British boyband One Direction, and the Latin American boyband CNCO. In July 2020, Sony sold the rights to the television formats and assets back to Cowell, effectively divesting...
Night music may refer to:  Film and theater  Night Music , a 1940 play by Clifford Odets A Little Night Music, a 1973 musical by Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler A Little Night Music , 1977 film adaptation of the musical Night Music, a 1986 experimental film by Stan Brakhage  Albums and songs  Night Music, a 1990 song by the heavy metal band Dio from the album Lock Up the Wolves Nachtmusik , a 1990 album by Lightwave Night Music , 1994 Night Music Night Music, a 1995 song by Simple Minds from the album Good News from the Next World  Other  Night Music , a TV series hosted by David Sanborn featuring musicians from a wide variety of genres Eine kleine Nachtmusik , a 1787 composition by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Night music , a stylistic evocation of night, found in the music of the Hungarian composer Bla Bartk nocturne, usually a musical composition that is inspired by, or evocative of, the night Night Music, a composition by George Crumb Nachtmusique, wind instruments early music ensemble Nightmusic , a 1972 short story by Joyce Carol Oates
In music, transcription is the practice of notating a piece or a sound which was previously unnotated andor unpopular as a written music, for example, a jazz improvisation or a video game soundtrack. When a musician is tasked with creating sheet music from a recording and they write down the notes that make up the piece in music notation, it is said that they created a musical transcription of that recording. Transcription may also mean rewriting a piece of music, either solo or ensemble, for another instrument or other instruments than which it was originally intended. The Beethoven Symphonies transcribed for solo piano by Franz Liszt are an example. Transcription in this sense is sometimes called arrangement, although strictly speaking transcriptions are faithful adaptations, whereas arrangements change significant aspects of the original piece. Further examples of music transcription include ethnomusicological notation of oral traditions of folk music, such as Bla Bartk's and Ralph Vaughan Williams' collections of the national folk music of Hungary and England respectively. The French composer Olivier Messiaen transcribed birdsong in the wild, and incorporated it into many of...
The music of Suriname is known for kaseko music, and for having an Indo-Caribbean tradition.  Kawina  Kawina originated around the 1860s, after the abolition of slavery. The vocals are typically call-and-response, and it is accompanied by all kinds of typical Surinamese percussion, such as the skratji. Like many South American music genres, the rhythm of the kawina originates in Africa. African slaves took their religions, such as Winti, and music with them to Suriname. To dissipate the time, the slaves sung during the work on the plantations, often in a typical pattern of one voice that asks for, and is answered in unison . The music was performed so rhythmically that it became a dance. In the beginning, the lyrics were religious. After abolition of slavery, it became entertainment music, with lyrics that are more socially critical in tone. From then on, kawina is performed by orchestras containing about ten band members, on various Surinamese percussion instruments. Typical instruments are the double-skinned drums, the zigzag or shaker and the kwa-kwa bangi . The vocals have always remained in the call-and-response pattern. If a drum kit forms...
The Sources of Music and The Triumph of Music are two murals that Marc Chagall painted in 1966 for the Metropolitan Opera House at the Lincoln Center in New York City. Following a commission by the opera for Chagall's set and costume design for Mozart's The Magic Flute for its inaugural season, the murals were created for the lobby of the opera house, and are visible to the outside plaza. The murals are approximately 30 ft by 36 ft . The south wall holds the work entitled The Triumph of Music and the north wall, The Sources of Music. Chagall had intended the reverse of this arrangement. The director of the Metropolitan Opera, Rudolf Bing, is depicted in one of the murals playing a mandolin. The composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is depicted in The Triumph of Music, flying above Manhattan and interacting with characters from his opera The Magic Flute.  Collateral  In 2009, the Met's board of directors decided to use the paintings as collateral for a long-term loan which previously relied on cash for backing. Some sources estimate the value of the paintings at 20 million, but Sotheby's valued them at 55 million by 2026. The murals were put up as collateral by the Metropolitan...
Spanish music may refer to: Music of Spain, music of the Spanish people in Spain Latin music, though note that not all Latin music are in Spanish Spanish music may also refer to the music of Spanish-speaking countries: Music of Argentina Music of Bolivia Music of Chile Music of Costa Rica Music of Cuba Music of Colombia Music of the Dominican Republic Music of Ecuador Music of El Salvador Music of Equatorial Guinea Music of Guatemala Music of Honduras Music of Mexico Music of Nicaragua Music of Panama Music of Paraguay Music of Peru Music of Puerto Rico Music of Venezuela Music of Uruguay
A drop or beat drop in music, made popular by electronic dance music styles, is a point in a music track where a sudden change of rhythm or bass line occurs, which is preceded by a build-up section and break. The drop is the loudest portion of an EDM song. Originating from disco and 1970s rock, drops are found in genres such as EDM, trap, hip-hop, K-pop and country. With the aid of music production applications, drops can vary in instrumentation and sound. Electronic instruments and tools for making drops include synthesizers, vocal samples, a drum beat, and basslines. Certain drops can include a beat-up so-named because it is a point where the volume of the foundational kick drum beat is increased, after it has been faded down during a break or buildup and climax a single, striking drop done late in the track. There are also types of drops which deviate from the standard, such as anti-drops songs in which the chorus is more minimal than the build-up and consecutive superseding-drops.  History  The drop ...grew out of '70s rock. A subtype of the drop, the bass drop, was used in the Miami bass subgenre of hip hop music in the 1980s. The bass drop was produced...
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer music is music that focuses on the experiences of gender and sexual minorities as a product of the broad gay liberation movement. LGBTQ music spans the entire spectrum of popular music. Lyricism and song content typically express the frustration, anxiety, and hope associated with non-normative sexual and gender identities, offering marginalized groups a vital platform for expression. Recently, popular music has provided an arena where marginalized voices can be heard and sexual identities shaped, challenged, and renegotiated. Mainstream music has begun to reflect acceptance of LGBTQ musicianship. Some queer icons are openly queer-identifying and have made impactful changes in the world for LGBTQ people. Others are straight allies that have expressed their support for the community. LGBTQ music can also refer to music that does not necessarily engage with queer themes, or is created by queer composersproducers, but is enjoyed by members of the LGBTQ community regardless. Much of the music created by straight queer icons is enjoyed in LGBTQ spaces, with artists such as Judy Garland, Cline Dion, Janet Jackson, Donna Summer, Kylie...
Heatmiser was an American rock band, formed in Portland, Oregon, in October 1991. Consisting of Elliott Smith , Neil Gust , Brandt Peterson bass later replaced by Sam Coomes, frontman of Quasi and Tony Lash , they were known for their well-crafted lyrics and songs often featuring the juxtaposition of melancholic and cheery words and melodies. Elliott Smith's pop-oriented songs provided a contrast to Neil Gust's darker compositions, yet both songwriters explored themes such as anger, alienation, loneliness and despair.  History   Pre-Heatmiser early years  In 1987, while both of them were attending classes at Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts, Neil Gust and Elliott Smith met and formed a band, Swimming Jesus. In addition to covers of songs by Ringo Starr and Elvis Costello, the pair performed original songs in clubs in nearby Northampton. The two were prolific: besides Swimming Jesus, Gust and Smith had another pre-Heatmiser college band, featuring a friend named Dylan and two others, and recorded stupid and embarrassing music on rented four-track recorders with poetry on top, recited by a Southern Californian...
Oriental music may refer to: Asian Music Music of Asia Indian music Music of India Music in ancient India Ravanahatha, ancient Indian bowed string instrument Indian classical music Hindustani classical music, of northern India Carnatic music, classical music of southern India Raga, melodic mode in Indian classical music Svara, note in the octave in Indian classical music Lavni songs and bharatnatyam music Hindu music Buddhist music Indian folk music Hindi film music Indian pop Jazz in India Music of Sri Lanka Mizrahi music, of Mizrahi Jews from the Middle East Music of Turkey Turkish music , in Western classical music Ottoman music Shaabi, Egyptian folklore music Islamic music Sufi music, within the mystical Sufi tradition of Islam
In music theory, a scale is any consecutive series of notes that form a progression between one note and its octave, typically by order of pitch or fundamental frequency. The word scale originates from the Latin scala, which literally means ladder. Therefore, any scale is distinguishable by its step-pattern, or how its intervals interact with each other. Often, especially in the context of the common practice period, most or all of the melody and harmony of a musical work is built using the notes of a single scale, which can be conveniently represented on a staff with a standard key signature. Due to the principle of octave equivalence, scales are generally considered to span a single octave, with higher or lower octaves simply repeating the pattern. A musical scale represents a division of the octave space into a certain number of scale steps, a scale step being the recognizable distance between two successive notes of the scale. However, there is no need for scale steps to be equal within any scale and, particularly as demonstrated by microtonal music, there is no limit to how many notes can be injected within any given musical interval. A measure of the width...
Manny's Music was an American music instrument store in New York City on Music Row West 48th Street, between 6th and 7th Avenues, Midtown Manhattan, where musicians from beginner to professional could buy their instruments and meet each other. Many artists bought their first guitar from Manny's before they became famous. The store was in business for 74 years, from 1935 to 2009. Manny's relaunched in 2024 after the brand was acquired by Vista Musical Instruments.  History  Manny Goldrich , originally a saxophone salesman, founded Manny's Musical Instruments  Accessories Inc. in 1935 on West 48th Street. From its start until 1959, Manny's was located at 120 West 48th Street. Music Row was so named because of the many music shops clustered there. At first, the store was about 20 feet by 20 feet, but expanded gradually to the whole building by about 1954. The store hit its heyday in the 1960s, after British invasion bands started to visit America. Prices were low and product ranges wider than in Europe. In 1965, Rockefeller Center offered to buy the property, and purchased a new building for Manny's at 156 West 48th Street. The shop moved officially...
Falset is the latitude for a brasswind player's pitch-control of a harmonic by adjusting lip or air pressure. While only just sufficient in middle and high registers to allow for intonation adjustment, this latitude becomes very wide in the low register in the flattening direction. Without this ability for adjustment, the conventional system of three valves would be problematic owing to the sharpness of certain valve combinations. Previously also falset referred to falsetto. At B2 the pitch can sometimes be dropped by a fourth or more by means of what is often termed loose-lipping, a slackening of the embouchure which produces factitious pitches not included in the harmonic series. This term dates at least from 1620, when Michael Praetorius wrote about falset tones in articles concerning the cornett and sackbut in his Syntagma Musicum. The technique has been utilized in horn playing from at least the eighteenth century. Works from the Classical period include notes that descend to low G written in bass clef as G1 in old notation. Mathematicians and music theorists from Mersenne onward have suggested explanations for these sounds. Recent efforts include a considerably revised view...
Music Bank is a South Korean music program which airs every Friday at 17:15 KST on KBS2. As of 2015, the show is also broadcast in more than a hundred countries through KBS World. Episodes are filmed at the KBS New Wing Open Hall in Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo District. The show also organizes the global live concert Music Bank World Tour.  History  Before Music Bank, Top 10 Songs debuted in 1981 airing live at 6:30 on Fridays and airing until 1998. For the first few months of 1998, Bravo New Generation took its place, but due to low ratings, it was quickly replaced by Music Bank on June 18, 1998. The chart format that was used since Top 10 Songs was abandoned in late 2001 due to controversy and was changed into a request format. In 2005, the show was moved to Sunday afternoons at 12:45 and became a recorded broadcast. Due to sinking ratings, in September 2007, the show returned to its original time slot of Friday evenings at 6:30 and returned to a live format. The charts were revived as category-based charts. In January 2008, the category-based charts were combined into the K-Chart which is the familiar countdown chart and the only program...
This article outlines trends in popular music during the 2020s. The early years of the decade were particularly challenging for the music industry, as the COVID-19 pandemic forced widespread concert cancellations and disrupted traditional live performances. In response, video platforms like TikTok quickly rose to prominence, becoming key tastemakers and driving musical trends by launching viral hits. By mid-2023, the industry recorded its highest annual revenue to date , partly due to the growth of streaming subscriptions.  Overview   Impact of COVID-19  The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the cancellation or postponement of numerous music-related events scheduled to take place in the early 2020s, including major tours, festivals, and television appearances. Due to the restrictions, many artists conducted virtual experiences as an alternative to live events e.g. Dua Lipa's Studio 2054 and Taylor Swift's Folklore: The Long Pond Studio Sessions. The COVID-19 pandemic had also forced artists to postpone or reschedule major tours to at least a year or two from their initially scheduled tour dates, examples including The Stadium Tour co-headlined by Mtley Cre and...
Bethel Music is an American Christian music label and publishing group. Beginning as a local music ministry, it became a global outreach collective of songwriters and musicians.  History  Between 2009 and 2013, Bethel Music developed a record label and publishing company featuring songwriters and worship leaders from Bethel Church, a non-denominational megachurch in Redding, California. In February 2015, Bethel Music launched the Bethel Music Artist Collective, an expansion of their group of locally based artists to include Josh Baldwin and Jonathan and Melissa Helser from another ministry which is based in North Carolina. In June of the same year, Bethel added Christian artist Cory Asbury, formerly of the International House of Prayer. In September 2015, Bethel announced that Leeland was joining Bethel's Artist Collective.  Past and current members  Members of Bethel Music from 2009 to present Josh Baldwin Dante Bowe Amanda Cook Kristene DiMarco Morgan Faleolo Sean Feucht David Funk Steffany Gretzinger Kalley Heiligenthal Melissa Helser Brian Johnson Jenn Johnson Brandon Lake Leeland William Matthews Paul and Hannah McClure Noah Paul Harrison Jeremy Riddle Edward Rivera...
Music albums in the WWE The Music series, formerly the WWF The Music series, include: WWF Full Metal: The Album, 1995, considered to be Volume 1 WWF The Music, Volume 2 in 1997 WWF The Music, Volume 3 in 1998 WWF The Music, Volume 4 in 1999 WWF The Music, Vol. 5 in 2001 ThemeAddict: WWE The Music, Vol. 6 in 2004 WWE The Music, Volume 7 in 2007 WWE The Music, Volume 8 in 2008 Voices: WWE The Music, Vol. 9 in 2009 WWE The Music: A New Day, Vol. 10 in 2010 WWE The Music: The Beginning, 2012  See also  All pages with titles beginning with WWF The Music All pages with titles beginning with WWE The Music WWE Music Group
A music roll is a storage medium used to operate a mechanical musical instrument. They are used for the player piano, mechanical organ, electronic carillon and various types of orchestrion. The vast majority of music rolls are made of paper. Other materials that have been utilized include thin card , thin sheet brass , composite multi-layered electro-conductive aluminium and paper roll and, in the modern era, thin plastic or PET film. The music data is stored by means of perforations. The mechanism of the instrument reads these as the roll unwinds, using a pneumatic, mechanical or electrical sensing device called a tracker bar, and the mechanism subsequently plays the instrument. After a roll is played, it is necessary for it to be rewound before it can be played again. This necessitates a break in a musical performance. To overcome this problem, some instruments were built with two player mechanisms allowing one roll to play while the other rewinds. A piano roll is a specific type of music roll, and is designed to operate an automatic piano like the player piano or...
Music for Torching is a 1999 novel by American writer A. M. Homes. It is about a dysfunctional suburban family in the contemporary United States. The book deals with issues including sex, infidelity, social consciousness, and school violence. It is one of Homes' most critically acclaimed books.  Background  Homes published the first chapter of her 1999 novel Music for Torching as a short story in The New Yorker. The title comes from a 1955 jazz album of the same name, recorded by singer Billie Holiday. It features some characters who appeared in short stories of her first collection, The Safety of Objects .  Plot summary  Characters include Elaine and Paul, a married middle-class couple, and their two male children. Paul works in New York City, and Elaine is staying at home to rear the children. The couple alternate between proclaiming their happiness and boredom. By the end of the first chapter, they have set fire to their house.  Reception  Gary Krist of The New York Times wrote that this novel by Homes was far more effectively unsettling , mainly because she serves up her feast of deviance in a narrative that is much more difficult...
The music of Kiribati has been less affected by Western culture than most other Pacific island cultures since Europeans did not arrive in Kiribati until 1892. The national anthem of Kiribati is Kunan Kiribati , by I.T. Uriam it was adopted upon independence in 1979. Kiribati folk music is generally based on chanting or other forms of vocalizing, accompanied by body percussion. Public performances in modern Kiribati are generally performed by a seated chorus, accompanied by a guitar. However, during formal performances of the standing dance or the hip dance a wooden box is used as a percussion instrument. This box is constructed so as to give a hollow and reverberating tone when struck simultaneously by a chorus of men sitting around it. Traditional songs are often love-themed, but there are also competitive, religious, children's, patriotic, war and wedding songs. There are also stick dances which accompany legends and semi-historical stories. These stick dances or 'tirere' are only performed during major festivals. In 1963 Gerd Koch filmed on Tabiteuea traditional dances and songs of the ruoia series: the kawawa, the...
YouTube Premium is a subscription service offered by the American video platform YouTube. The service provides ad-free access to content across the service, as well as access to exclusive YouTube Originals programming produced in collaboration with the site's creators, ability to download videos and listen background playback of videos on mobile devices, and access to the music streaming service, YouTube Music, along with other benefits. It has over 125 million subscribers. The service was launched on November 14, 2014, as Music Key, offering advertisement-free streaming of music videos from participating labels on YouTube and Google Play Music. The service was then revised and relaunched as YouTube Red on October 21, 2015, expanding its scope to offer advertisement-free access to all YouTube videos, as opposed to just music. YouTube announced the rebranding of the service as YouTube Premium on May 17, 2018, alongside the return of YouTube Music as a separate subscription service. Later in the year, it was reported that YouTube was planning to make some of the original content associated with the service available on an ad-supported basis. 2...
A mute is a device attached to a musical instrument which changes the instrument's tone quality or lowers its volume. Mutes are commonly used on string and brass instruments, especially the trumpet and trombone, and are occasionally used on woodwinds. Their effect is mostly intended for artistic use, but they can also allow players to practice discreetly. Muting can also be done by hand, as in the case of palm muting a guitar or grasping a triangle to dampen its sound. Mutes on brass instruments are typically inserted into the flared end of the instrument . They can also be held in front of or clipped onto the bell. Of brass mutes, the straight mute is the most common and is frequently used in classical and jazz music, but a wide variety are available. On string instruments of the violin family, mutes are usually attached to the bridge, the piece of wood that supports the strings. Palm muting a guitar involves placing the side of the hand across the strings, and some of them have physical mutes which produce a similar effect. Pianos have a soft pedal and occasionally a practice pedal, which both decrease the instrument's volume.  Overview  According to The New Grove...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 829 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Internet culture refers to culture developed and maintained among frequent and active users of the Internet who primarily communicate with one another as members of online communities that is, a culture whose influence is mediated by computer screens and information communication technology, specifically the Internet. Internet culture arises from the frequent interactions between members within various online communities and the use of these communities for communication, entertainment, business, and recreation. Studied aspects of Internet culture include anonymitypseudonymity, social media, gaming and specific communities, such as fandoms.  History  The Internet developed in parallel with rapid and sustained technological advances in computing and data communication. Widespread access to the Internet emerged as the cost of infrastructure dropped by several orders of magnitude with consecutive technological improvements. Though Internet culture originated during the creation and development of early online communities - such as those found on bulletin board systems before the Internet reached mainstream adoption in developed countries - many cultural...
Against is an Australian hardcore punk band from Brisbane, Australia.  History  Vocalist Greg first formed the group in September 2001, with the intention of having fun with some friends and playing hardcore music with heart and a message. After signing with Common Bond Records, Against recorded and released their second EP, entitled My Hate My Choice, to critical acclaim and has now sold over 2000 copies to date. Constant touring across Australia with bands such as Mindsnare and Champion, as well as sharing the stage with such bands as AFI, Terror, Madball, Cro-Mags, Boysetsfire and Silence The Epilogue, has helped pave their path to success and allowed them to thoroughly road-test their sound. With Against's first album entitled Left For Dead, released on Melbourne-based Trial  Error Records in November 2006, the band have taken their sound to the next level. Against's second studio release, Loyalty and Betrayal, was released on 20 August 2007.  Current Lineup  Greg Appleby - Vocals Ash McIntyre - Guitar Michael Elmes - Guitar Chris Hill - Bass Christopher Dumble - Drums  Former members  Chris Buttery - Guitar Bojan Sambolec - Drums Demo, My Hate, My Choice...
Flexopecten hyalinus, the hyaline scallop, is a species of saltwater clams, a scallop, a marine bivalve mollusc in the family Pectinidae, the scallops.  Description  The shell of an adult Flexopecten hyalinus can be as large as 20-30 millimetres . This shell is delicate, with a brown or pale brown surface, almost translucent and has quite flat ribs.  Distribution  This species can be found in the Mediterranean Sea, from Italy and Croatia to Greece, under rocks or dead leaves of algae, usually at depths of about 10 m.  References  Schiaparelli, Stefano . Bivalvi, in: Revisione della Checklist della fauna marina italiana. Pesi
Timothy McKay is an American professional football guard. He played college football for the NC State Wolfpack. McKay signed with the Washington Commanders as an undrafted free agent in 2025.  Early life  McKay was born on January 15, 2002, in Long Island, New York. He attended Wakefield High School. where he was rated a four-star recruit. McKay committed to play college football for the NC State Wolfpack over Duke.  College career  During his six-year career at NC State from 2019 through 2024, he appeared in 55 games, with 34 starts, as he became a full-time starter in 2022, while primarily playing offensive guard, and tackle. After the conclusion of the 2024 season, he declared for the 2025 NFL draft, while also accepting an invite to participate in the 2025 East-West Shrine Bowl.  Professional career   Washington Commanders  McKay signed with the Washington Commanders as an undrafted free agent on April 26, 2025. He was waived by the Commanders as a part of final roster cuts on August 26, and was re-signed to the team's practice squad the following day. On January 5, 2026, McKay signed a reservefutures contract with the Commanders. He was...
Starostino is a rural locality in Furmanovsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Russia. Population: 14   Geography  This rural locality is located 3 kilometres from Furmanov , 31 kilometres from Ivanovo and 270 kilometres from Moscow. Popadyino is the nearest rural locality.  References 
CNO may refer to: CN0, the carrier-to-noise-density ratio of a signal Casualty notification officer, a person responsible for informing relatives of death or injury Chief networking officer, a business role Chief nursing officer, a nursing management position Chief of Naval Operations, the head of the United States Navy Chino Airport, in California, IATA symbol: CNO Chronic nuisance ordinance, a law that aims to evict tenants for reporting crime CNO cycle, a stellar nuclear fusion reaction Coconut oil, an edible oil College of Nurses of Ontario, an Ontario professional regulatory body Computer network operations, the optimization and use of digital telecommunications CNO Financial Group, an American financial services holding company CNO , which encodes the protein cappuccino homolog Clozapine N-oxide, a synthetic ligand which activates a receptor Fulminate, a chemical compound containing the CNO ion Nitrile oxide, a chemical compound with the functional group RCNO
Carolyn Bumiller-Hickey House is a historic residence located at 1049 South Elden Avenue in the Pico-Union neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Built circa 1904, the home is a well-preserved example of Mission Revival architecture with transitional Craftsman elements. The house is associated with early 20th-century socialite Caroline Bumiller-Hickey, and was designated as Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument 794 on May 4, 2005. The monument is officially listed under the name Carolyn Bumiller-Hickey House in city records, though historical sources confirm the correct spelling of her name is Caroline.  Historical significance  The house was constructed for Caroline Bumiller-Hickey , a wealthy German-born Los Angeles socialite and the widow of Jacob Bumiller, a Bavarian wine merchant. She managed the Bumiller Estate, which included several properties in downtown Los Angeles, and was a notable figure in early 20th-century Los Angeles society. Following her second marriage to George C. Hickey, Caroline became the subject of a highly publicized divorce. During the trial, she claimed to be deaf and appeared in court elegantly dressed with an ear trumpet...
Luigi Pigorini was an Italian palaeoethnologist, archaeologist and ethnographer.  Biography  Pigorini was born at Fontanellato, near Parma. At the age of sixteen years, in 1858, he became an alumnus of the Museo d'Antichit di Parma Museum of Antiquities of Parma, now Parma Archaeological Museum. He later encountered Pellegrino Strobel, the professor of Natural Sciences at the University of Parma and Gaetano Chierici, director of the Gabinetto di Antichit Patrie di Reggio Emilia or Cabinet of Antiquities of the native land of Reggio Emilia and began archaeological research in the territory of Parmesan. In 1863, he began to travel in Switzerland and Tuscany, and also studied in Rome and Naples. He ran a course in Parma where he resorted to various materials in order to explain the uses and the functions of prehistoric tools. A few years later after becoming a Bachelor of Arts in Political and Administrative Sciences he became director of the Museum of Antiquity of Parma. In 1875, he founded with Chierici and Strobel a paleoethnological journal Bollettino di Paletnologia Italiana and, in the same year,...
The Paignton Picture House is a currently disused cinema in Paignton, England, situated on Torbay Road.  History  The Picture House was designed by the Paignton-based practice Hyams and Hobgen. It was opened on 16 March 1914. In its early days it featured a 21-piece orchestra, with each member paid a guinea to perform. There are 375 seats: 271 in the stalls, 104 in the circle, plus three private boxes at the back seating an additional eight.  Closure  The cinema closed down on 26 September 1999 following the opening of a multiplex cinema at the other end of the same road. It was bought by the Paignton  Dartmouth Steam Railway, which is adjacent, who had plans to turn it into a passenger waiting area. However, due to the building's Grade II listed building status, it is difficult to make any extensive changes and those plans were shelved. More recently, there has been talk of returning the Paignton Picture House to its former glory, as a living film museum featuring films from the very first days of silent cinema through to the 1950s. The experience would be further enhanced by staff wearing period costume. However, discussions with the railway company have some way to go before...
Kim In-Sik is a former manager of the Korea Baseball Organization. He was the manager of the South Korean national baseball team in the late 2000s and again in the 2010s when he was named as such in June 2015.  Playing career  Kim played for amateur teams Crown Beer and Hanil Bank as a pitcher from 1965 to 1972, but with continuing arm and shoulder trouble, he retired after the 1972 season.  Manager career   KBO Manager  In 1973 Kim managed Baemoon High School until 1977, and also coached Sangmoon High School during 3 years. He was the manage of the Dongguk University baseball team from 1982 to 1985. Then, Kim moved into the professional ranks in 1986 when he became the bench coach of the Haitai Tigers from 1986 to 1989. Kim managed during his career the Ssangbangwool Raiders from 1990 to 1992 and the Doosan Bears from 1995 to 2003. For the Bears, he led Doosan to Korean Series titles in 1995 and 2001. In November 2004, Kim was hired to manage the Hanwha Eagles. One month later he suffered a stroke but recovered enough to stay on as manager. Kim led the Eagles to the Korean Series in 2006 but the team lost to the Samsung Lions. The Eagles did not...
Jean Pierre Cuoni was a Swiss banker known as the co-founder and chairman of EFG International, Switzerland's private banks.  Early life and education  Cuoni was born in 1937 in Lucerne, Switzerland. He graduated from International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne in 1957.  Career  Cuoni spent 28 years at Citibank, where he headed private banking for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. He has served as the senior vice President at Citibank. He then served as the CEO of Coutts from 1990 to 1994. In 1995, he co-founded EFG International with Lawrence D. Howell. He also served as the chairman of EFG International from 1997 until 2015.  References 
Paul Ji is an American pianist.  Early life  Paul Ji was born in Chicago. His mother, iaowei Rose Luo, is a professor at INSEAD. Paul Ji started his musical journey when he was four years old. His elder sister Esther had a big impact on his interest in piano, as she also played the instrument. At the age of 12, he was under the instruction of Elizabeth Cooper at the prestigious Schola Cantorum in Paris, then at cole Normale de musique de Paris with teacher Jean-Bernard Pommier. He lives in Fontainebleau, France. Ji is a Steinway artist.  Education  Ji currently attends Yale University. He was a Music Scholar at Eton College.  Competitions and awards   Concerts  He has performed solo recitals in prestigious venues such as the Golden Hall in Vienna's Musikverein, the Berlin Philharmonie, and the Thtre des Champs-lyses in Paris where he dedicated his debut recital to works of Chopin including the full cycle of 24 Preludes. After winning the Concerto Competition in Lucca, Italy, he performed Chopin's 2nd Piano Concerto with conductor Stanley Dodds and the Berlin Symphony Orchestra in 2024. The following year, he was re-invited to perform Chopin's 1st...
Byron Christopher Nelson was an American Lutheran pastor and an early apologist for creationism.  Early life and education  Byron Nelson was the second of six children born in Madison, Wisconsin to Thea Johnanna Stondahl Nelson and John Mandt Nelson, a U.S. Representative from Wisconsin, who served nine terms in Congress between 1913 and 1933. Byron Nelson's youth was therefore divided between Washington, D.C. and the family home in Madison, where he excelled in athletics and enjoyed oil painting. He graduated from Madison Central High School in 1912 and then attended George Washington University, where he was encouraged by Harriet Earhart Monroe to enter the ministry. After returning to Madison and attending the University of Wisconsin, Nelson was approaching graduation in the spring of 1917 when the United States declared war on Germany. His father, an opponent of the war, urged Nelson to move to Alberta, Canada, where the family owned a 1,300 acre wheat farm. There Byron married his childhood sweetheart, Anita Valentine Pleuss, at a small Lutheran church in Lethbridge, Alberta. Nelson's quasi-evasion of the draft created a windfall for his...
The Snfellsnes naiflsns  is a peninsula situated to the west of Borgarfjrur, in western Iceland. The peninsula has a volcanic origin having the Snfellsnes volcanic belt down its centre, and the Snfellsjkull volcano, regarded as one of the symbols of Iceland, at its western tip. With its height of 1,446 m , it is the highest mountain on the peninsula and has a glacier at its peak . The volcano can be seen on clear days from Reykjavk, a distance of about 120 km . The mountain is also known as the setting of the novel Journey to the Center of the Earth by the French author Jules Verne. The area surrounding Snfellsjkull has been designated one of the four national parks by the government of Iceland. It is also the home of the Ingjaldsholl church, a Protestant church. The peninsula is one of the main settings in the Laxdla saga and it was, according to this saga, the birthplace of the first West Norse member of the Varangian Guard, Bolli Bollasson. Other historical people who lived in the area according to the saga include Gurn svfursdttir, Bolli orleiksson and Snorri Goi. Local...
Gratianus Funarius was an Illyrian soldier of the Roman Empire who flourished in the 4th century. He was the father of Roman emperors, Valentinian I and Valens, founders of the Valentinianic dynasty.  Life  Gratianus originated from the town of Cibalae , in southern Pannonia Secunda , possibly in the 280s. During his youth, he obtained the nickname Funarius, meaning the rope-man because he was a rope salesman. Gratianus joined the army and rose through the ranks to become protector domesticus during the reign of Constantine the Great. A protector domesticus named ...atianus is attested at Salona during this time, leading some to think Gratianus could have been stationed there. Gratianus's first independent command was as a tribune, probably in the mobile field army of Constantine. During the late 320's or early 330's he was made comes of Africa, possibly to supervise the frontier. However, Gratianus was soon accused of embezzlement and was forced to retire. Gratianus was recalled during the early 340s and was made comes of Britannia. He may have been recalled to command a unit of comitatenses under emperor Constans I during...
Phytoliriomyza pittosporocaulis is an Australian species of fly in the family Agromyzidae.  Description  Phytoliriomyza pittosporocaulis and the similar-looking P. pittosporophylli both have a pale frons, a lunule approximately in the form of a semicircle, reclinate orbital setulae, a black scutellum, pale halteres, and dorso-central bristles in a 31 arrangement. It can be distinguished from P. pittosporophylli by the third antennal segment being largely yellow. The larva has 4-6 bulbs in each posterior spiracle this differs from the 8-10 bulbs of P. pittosporophylli. Full descriptions of the adult and larva were given by Hering.  Ecology  Larvae of this species form twig galls on sweet pittosporum . These galls are up to 5.7 mm in diameter and semi-ovoid or hemispherical in shape. Sometimes multiple galls occur together with overlapping edges.  References 
Bartlett Lake is a reservoir that was formed by the damming of the Verde River in the U.S. state of Arizona. It is downstream and to the south of Horseshoe Reservoir. Constructed in 1936-39 by the Salt River Project, the Bartlett Dam and reservoir were named for Bill Bartlett, a government surveyor. Bartlett Lake was the first reservoir built on the Verde River. Bartlett Lake, located 48 miles from downtown Phoenix and 17 miles northeast of Carefree, is a popular recreation area in the Tonto National Forest. After wet winters, the Bartlett Lake area often has fine displays of spring wildflowers. The facilities at Bartlett Lake are managed by the Forest Service.  Sport fishing and other recreation  Species inhabiting the lake, at about 1,600 feet above sea level, include largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, crappie, sunfish, channel catfish, flathead catfish, carp, crayfish, and bullfrogs. The nearest town with fuel, groceries, fishing tackle, restaurants, and other amenities is Carefree. At the lake itself, it is possible to rent boats and buy fishing licenses, fuel, groceries, and fishing equipment. The lake and its surrounding areas offer opportunities for...
John Kersey the younger was an English philologist and lexicographer of the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. He is notable for editing three dictionaries in his lifetime: A New English Dictionary , a revised version of Edward Phillips' The New World of English Words and the Dictionarium Anglo-Britannicum . As well as being amongst the earliest monolingual English dictionaries, they were also amongst the first to focus on words in common use, rather than on difficult words.  Life  He was son of John Kersey the elder, with whom he has often been confused, and revised the work of his father in the fourteenth edition of the Arithmetic of Edmund Wingate . He, more probably than his father, contributed the Discourse to an unlearned Prince' to the Translation of Plutarch's Morals, which appeared 1684-5 . He was mainly occupied with lexicography. The sixth edition of Phillips' New World of Words, which was published in 1706, was edited by him . He greatly added to the number of words, and published a seventh edition in 1720. Another dictionary, the New English Dictionary, of which...
Shahrak-e Vali-ye Asr is a village in Dasht-e Abbas Rural District of Dasht-e Abbas District, Dehloran County, Ilam province, Iran.  Demographics   Language  The village is populated by Arabs.  Population  At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 842 in 127 households, when it was in Musiyan District. The following census in 2011 counted 943 people in 195 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 942 people in 216 households. It was the most populous village in its rural district. In 2017, the rural district was separated from the district in the formation of Dasht-e Abbas District.  See also  Iran portal  Notes   References 
Rmpp's Chemistry Lexicon is a chemical encyclopedia from Germany. Started by chemistry teacher Hermann Rmpp in 1947 it has evolved to the leading chemical encyclopedia in German language. Rmpp's Chemistry Lexicon contains around 64,000 entries and 215,000 links.  History  After the first five editions by Hermann Rmpp, Erhard hlein took over editorship in 1964. He died shortly after publishing the 6th edition. The 7th and 8th edition were edited by Otto-Albrecht Neumller. In 1988, Rmpp's Chemistry Lexicon was transferred to Thieme Medical Publishers, with editorship handled by a team of authors. The 9th edition and 10th edition, the final two print editions, were published in 1992 and 1999, respectively. Since 2002 the Rmpp is published online as a web encyclopedia.  Spin-offs  The editorial team has created several spinoffs, e.g. the Rmpp Encyclopedia Natural Products and volumes about biotechnology  genetics, environment, food chemistry, and paint  varnish.  References   External links  Official website
Organolanthanide chemistry is the field of chemistry that studies organolanthanides, compounds with a lanthanide-carbon bond. Organolanthanide compounds are different from their organotransition metal analogues in the following ways: They are far more air- and water-sensitive and are often pyrophoric. Chemistry in the 0 oxidation state is far more limited. In fact, their electropositive nature makes their organometallic compounds more likely to be ionic. They form no stable carbonyls at room temperature organolanthanide carbonyl compounds have been observed only in argon matrices, and decompose when heated to 40 K.  -Bonded complexes  Metal-carbon  bonds are found in alkyls of the lanthanide elements such as 3 and Ln3. Methyllithium dissolved in THF reacts in stoichiometric ratio with LnCl3 to yield Ln3 probably contaminated with LiCl. If a chelating agent , such as tetramethylethylenediamine or 1,2-dimethoxyethane is mixed with MCl3 and CH3Li in THF, this forms 3 and 3. Certain powdered lanthanides react with diphenylmercury in THF to yield octahedral complexeswhere Ln ...
Mercury is a chemical element it has symbol Hg and atomic number 80. It is commonly known as quicksilver. A heavy, silvery d-block element, mercury is the only metallic element that is known to be liquid at standard temperature and pressure. As well as having the lowest freezing point, mercury has the lowest boiling point and subsequently the narrowest liquid state range of any metal at standard conditions. Mercury occurs in deposits throughout the world mostly as cinnabar . The red pigment vermilion is obtained by grinding natural cinnabar or synthetic mercuric sulfide. Exposure to mercury and mercury-containing organic compounds is toxic to the nervous system, immune system and kidneys of humans and other animals mercury poisoning can result from exposure to water-soluble forms of mercury such as mercuric chloride or methylmercury either directly or through mechanisms of biomagnification. Mercury is used in thermometers, barometers, manometers, sphygmomanometers, float valves, mercury switches, mercury relays, fluorescent lamps and other devices, but concerns about the element's toxicity have led to a reduction in the amount of mercury...
This is a list of notable unsolved problems in chemistry. Problems in chemistry are considered unsolved when an expert in the field considers it unsolved or when several experts in the field disagree about a solution to a problem.  Physical chemistry problems  Can the transition temperature of high-temperature superconductors be brought up to room temperature? How do the spin-orbit coupling, other relativistic corrections, and inter-electron effects modify the chemistry of the trans-actinides? Is it possible to create a practically useful lithium-air battery?  Organic chemistry problems  What is the origin of homochirality in biomolecules? Why are accelerated kinetics observed for some organic reactions at the water-organic interface? Do replacement reactions of aryl diazonium salts predominantly undergo SN1 or a radical mechanism? Can an electrochemical cell reliably perform organic redox reactions? Which classic organic chemistry reactions admit chiral catalysts? Is it possible to construct a quaternary carbon atom with arbitrary substituents and stereochemistry? Can artificial enzymes replace the need for protecting groups when modifying...
The Wolf Prize in Chemistry is awarded annually by the Wolf Foundation in Israel. It is one of the six Wolf Prizes established by the Foundation and has been awarded since 1978 the others are in Agriculture, Mathematics, Medicine, Physics, and Arts. The Wolf Prize in Chemistry is considered to be one of the most prestigious international chemistry awards, behind only the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Becoming a Wolf Prize laureate has been viewed as a potential precursor to receiving the Nobel Prize. As of 2025, 13 awardees have subsequently become Nobel laureates the most recent of those is Omar M. Yaghi.  Laureates   Laureates per country  Below is a chart of all laureates per country . Some laureates are counted more than once if they have multiple citizenships.  See also  List of chemistry awards  Notes and references   External links  Huffingtonpost Israel-Wolf-Prizes 2012. Huffington Post. 10 January 2012. Jerusalempost Israel-Wolf-Prizes 2013. December 2010. Jerusalempost Israel-Wolf-Prizes 2014. 16 January 2014. Jerusalempost Israel-Wolf-Prizes 2016 Jerusalempost Israel-Wolf-Prizes 2017 Jerusalempost Wolf-Prizes 2018 Wolf Prize...
Maria Salomea Skodowska Curie ne Skodowska 7 November 1867 - 4 July 1934, better known as Marie Curie, was a Polish and naturalised-French physicist and chemist. She shared the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics with her husband, Pierre Curie, for their joint researches on the radioactivity phenomena discovered by Professor Henri Becquerel. She won the 1911 Nobel Prize in Chemistry  the discovery of the elements radium and polonium, by the isolation of radium and the study of the nature and compounds of this remarkable element. Curie was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, the first person to win a Nobel Prize twice and the only person to win a Nobel Prize in two different scientific fields. She and Pierre were the first married couple to win the Nobel Prize, launching the Curie family legacy of five Nobel Prizes. She was, in 1906, the first woman to become a professor at the University of Paris. Curie was born in Warsaw, Russian Empire, where she studied at the clandestine Flying University and began her practical scientific training. In 1891, Curie followed her elder sister Bronisawa to study in Paris, where she earned her higher degrees and conducted her subsequent...
Advanced Chemistry is a German hip-hop band from Heidelberg, Baden-Wrttemberg. It was founded in 1987 by Toni L, Linguist, Gee-One, DJ Mike MD and MC Torch. Each member of the group holds German citizenship, and Toni L, Linguist, and Torch are of Italian, Ghanaian, and Haitian backgrounds, respectively. Influenced by North American socially conscious rap and the Native tongues movement, Advanced Chemistry is regarded as one of the main pioneers in German hip-hop. They were one of the first groups to rap in German . Furthermore, their songs tackled controversial social and political issues, distinguishing them from early German hip-hop group Die Fantastischen Vier , which had a more light-hearted, playful, party image.  Career  Advanced Chemistry frequently rapped about their lives and experiences as children of immigrants, exposing the marginalization experienced by most ethnic minorities in Germany, and the feelings of frustration and resentment that being denied a German identity can cause. The song Fremd im eigenen Land was released by Advanced Chemistry in November 1992. The...
Alfred Bernhard Nobel  noh-BEL Swedish:  21 October 1833 - 10 December 1896 was a Swedish chemist, inventor, engineer, and businessman. Nobel is known for inventing dynamite, as well as having bequeathed his fortune to establish the Nobel Prizes. He worked on various important contributions and inventions to science, holding 355 patents during his life. Born into the prominent Nobel family in Stockholm, Nobel displayed an early aptitude for science and learning, particularly in chemistry and languages he became fluent in six languages and filed his first patent at the age of 24. He embarked on many business ventures with his family, most notably owning the company Bofors-which was an iron and steel producer that he had developed into a major manufacturer of cannons and other armaments. Nobel's most famous invention, dynamite, was an explosive made using nitroglycerin, which was patented in 1867. He further invented gelignite in 1875 and ballistite in 1887. Upon his death, Nobel donated his fortune to a foundation to fund the Nobel Prizes, which annually recognize those who have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The synthetic element nobelium was...
The Journal of Organic Chemistry, colloquially known as JOC, is a peer-reviewed scientific journal for original contributions of fundamental research in all branches of theory and practice in organic and bioorganic chemistry. It is published by the publishing arm of the American Chemical Society, with 24 issues per year. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal had a 2023 impact factor of 3.3 and it is the journal that received the most cites in the field of organic chemistry. According to Web of Knowledge , eleven papers from the journal have received more than 1,000 citations, with the most cited paper having received 7,967 citations. The current editor-in-chief is Scott J. Miller from Yale University.  Indexing  J. Org. Chem. is currently indexed in:  See also  Organic Letters Organometallics  References   External links  Official website
Chemistry is a song by American rock band Semisonic. It was released as the first single on their third studio album, All About Chemistry . Released to US radio on January 8, 2001, the song reached number six on the US Billboard Triple-A chart, number 21 in New Zealand, and the top 40 in Ireland and the United Kingdom.  Music video  The music video for this song was filmed in 2000 in a house in Silver Lake, California. The video was directed by Liz Friedlander. It features the journey of a small silver ball which, at one stage, passes through a Rube Goldberg machine, and includes a series of domestic disasters.  Track listings  UK CD single Chemistry Over My Head Chemistry Chemistry UK cassette single Chemistry Over My Head European CD single Chemistry Girlfriend European and Australian maxi-CD single Chemistry - 3:53 Girlfriend - 3:44 Chemistry - 6:40 Chemistry Japanese CD single Chemistry Girlfriend Chemistry  Charts   Release history   References 
Chemistry is the seventh episode of the seventh season of the American crime drama television series Dexter. It is the 79th overall episode of the series and was written by executive producer Manny Coto and Karen Campbell, and directed by Holly Dale. It originally aired on Showtime on November 11, 2012. Set in Miami, the series centers on Dexter Morgan, a forensic technician specializing in bloodstain pattern analysis for the fictional Miami Metro Police Department, who leads a secret parallel life as a vigilante serial killer, hunting down murderers who have not been adequately punished by the justice system due to corruption or legal technicalities. In the episode, Dexter tries to prevent Sal Price from finding crucial evidence against Hannah and himself, while Quinn realizes he will not escape the Koshka's influence. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was seen by an estimated 2.01 million household viewers and gained a 1.1 ratings share among adults aged 18-49. The episode received positive reviews from critics, who praised the performances and character development, although some expressed disdain for Quinn's subplot.  Plot  After having sex with Dexter Michael...
Organouranium chemistry is the science exploring the properties, structure, and reactivity of organouranium compounds, which are organometallic compounds containing a carbon to uranium chemical bond. The field is of theoretical interest in organometallic chemistry.  History  Organouranium compounds was investigated during World War II when the Manhattan Project required volatile uranium compounds for 235U238U isotope separation. Henry Gilman attempted to synthesize compounds like tetramethyluranium, and others worked on uranium CO complexes. These efforts were fruitless, but investigations 60 years later have defined this class of compounds . After the discovery of ferrocene, research teams led by future Nobelists Geoffrey Wilkinson and Ernst Otto Fischer reported the metallocenes Cp3UCl and tetracyclopentadienyluranium Cp4U. The scope of the area expanded with the synthesis of uranocene 2U, in which uranium is sandwiched between two planar cyclooctatetraenide ligands.  Classes of compounds   Cyclopentadienyl complexes  The early work on Cp3UCl and Cp4U greatly expanded with the use of bulky Cp ligands. Illustrative are U23 and...
All About Chemistry is the third studio album by American rock band Semisonic, released on March 13, 2001, through MCA Records. With this release, the band failed, at least in America, to capitalize on the momentum it had generated with the song Closing Time from their previous album, Feeling Strangely Fine. This had a softer edge than Feeling Strangely Fine and was not as popular with the fans. By 2002, the album had sold 58,000 copies, and its poor sales partially led to the band going on an unofficial hiatus. However, it has a five star rating by Q Magazine. The track Chemistry was featured on the soundtrack for 40 Days and 40 Nights. The song One True Love was co-written by the band's singerguitarist, Dan Wilson and music legend Carole King. The song Get a Grip is an ode to masturbation. The title track was included on the album Nolee Mix which was released to promote the My Scene dolls. The special edition of the album features cover art with orange fluid in the vials instead of the blue fluid of the original. It includes two bonus tracks, Girlfriend and Ordinary Life instead of being tacked onto the end, they appear between Get a Grip and...
Chemistry of Consciousness is the fifth studio album by American thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust, released on October 25, 2013.  Track listing   Personnel  Toxic Holocaust Joel Grind - guitars, lead vocals Phil Zeller - bass, backing vocals Nick Bellmore - drums Production Kurt Ballou - mixing Brad Boatright - mastering  References   External links  TOIC HOLOCAUST: 'Chemistry Of Consciousness' Track Listing Revealed, Trailer Available. BlabberMouth.
Organobismuth chemistry is the chemistry of organometallic compounds containing a carbon to bismuth chemical bond. Applications are few. The main bismuth oxidation states are Bi and Bi as in all higher group 15 elements. The energy of a bond to carbon in this group decreases in the order P  As  Sb  Bi. The first reported use of bismuth in organic chemistry was in oxidation of alcohols by Frederick Challenger in 1934 2. Knowledge about methylated species of bismuth in environmental and biological media is limited.  Discovery  Triethylbismuth, the first known organobismuth compound, was prepared in 1850 by Lwig and Schweizer from iodoethane and a potassium-bismuth alloy. As with most trialkylbismuth compounds, BiEt3 has an extremely pungent and unpleasant odor, and is spontaneously oxidized in air. The chemistry of these complexes first began receiving significant attention when Grignard reagents and organolithium compounds became available.  OrganoBi compounds   Properties and structure  Triorganobismuth compounds are monomeric with pyramidal structures reminiscent of organophosphorus chemistry. The halides however adopt hypervalent...
Heavy metals is a controversial and ambiguous term for metallic elements with relatively high densities, atomic weights, or atomic numbers. The criteria used, and whether metalloids are included, vary depending on the author and context, and arguably, the term heavy metal should be avoided. A heavy metal may be defined on the basis of density, atomic number, or chemical behaviour. More specific definitions have been published, none of which has been widely accepted. The definitions surveyed in this article encompass up to 96 of the 118 known chemical elements only mercury, lead, and bismuth meet all of them. Despite this lack of agreement, the term is widely used in science. A density of more than 5 gcm3 is sometimes quoted as a commonly used criterion and is used in the body of this article. The earliest known metals-common metals such as iron, copper, and tin, and precious metals such as silver, gold, and platinum-are heavy metals. From 1809 onward, light metals, such as magnesium, aluminium, and titanium, were discovered, as well as less well-known heavy metals, including gallium, thallium, and hafnium. Some heavy metals are either essential nutrients typically...
Coordination Chemistry Reviews is a semimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Elsevier. It was established in 1966 and covers all aspects of coordination chemistry. The editor-in-chief is Philip A. Gale . Coordination Chemistry Research, a sister journal aimed towards primary research rather than reviews, was launched in 2024.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in Academic Search Premier, Chemical Abstracts Core, Science Citation Index Expanded and Scopus. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2025 impact factor of 23.5.  References   External links  Official website
Organotungsten chemistry is the chemistry of chemical compounds with W-C bonds. It shares many similarities with organomolybdenum chemistry, while having more prevalent high oxidation states than the related organochromium chemistry. Notable applications include that in olefinalkyne metathesis catalysis, and in arene activation. If the compound only has W-C bonds, is it, by definition, a form of tungsten carbide.  Carbonyl  cyanide complexes   Carbonyl complexes  The simplest tungsten carbonyl complex is tungsten hexacarbonyl, most commonly prepared via reductive carbonylation for instance, reaction of WCl6 and zinc powder under a CO atmosphere of tungsten halides and similar compounds. Tungsten hexacarbonyl itself is able to catalyze alkene metathesis. Being volatile and easily decomposed, it is also widely used in the electron beam-induced deposition technique to deposit tungsten atoms. Reduction of the hexacarbonyl in liquid ammonia with borohydride and sodium metal, respectively yields the anionic carbonyl complexes 2-  4-. Also known are the complexes 2-  2-. Substitution of the carbonyl ligand can be facilitated thermally or...
First awarded in 2001, the Green Chemistry Award was presented every two years by the Royal Society of Chemistry for advances in environmentally focused chemistry. In addition to a prize of 2000, winners of the award complete a UK based lecture tour. The award was discontinued in 2020.  Winners  2001 : Keith Smith 2003 : Varinder Aggarwal 2006 : Andrew P Abbott 2010 : Roger Sheldon for his work in the field of catalysis 2012 : Edman Tsang for development of nanoparticulate catalysts for use in manufacturing 2014 : Michael North, University of York for his work on Carbon Dioxide as a chemical feedstock. 2016 : Paul Anastas for his seminal work in developing innovative methods in molecular design, leading to products and processes that reduce environmental impacts. 2018 : James Clark, University of York, for the promotion of applied, market-driven green chemistry. 2020: Paul Dyson, Ecole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne  See also  List of chemistry awards List of environmental awards  References 
A chemical bond is the association of atoms or ions to form molecules, crystals, and other structures. The bond may result from the electrostatic force between oppositely charged ions, as in ionic bonds the sharing of electrons, as in covalent bonds or some combination of these effects. Chemical bonds are described as having different strengths: there are strong bonds or primary bonds such as covalent, ionic, and metallic bonds, and weak bonds or secondary bonds such as dipole-dipole interactions, the London dispersion force, and hydrogen bonds. Since opposite electric charges attract, the negatively charged electrons surrounding the nucleus and the positively charged protons within a nucleus attract each other. Electrons shared between two nuclei will be attracted to both of them. Constructive quantum mechanical wavefunction interference stabilizes the paired nuclei . Bonded nuclei maintain an optimal distance that balances attractive and repulsive effects, as explained quantitatively by quantum theory. The atoms in molecules, crystals, metals, and other forms of matter are held together by chemical bonds, which determine...
The International Chemistry Olympiad is an annual academic competition for high school students. It is one of the International Science Olympiads. The first IChO was held in Prague, Czechoslovakia, in 1968. The event has been held every year since then, with the exception of 1971. The delegations that attended the first events were mostly countries of the former Eastern bloc and it was not until 1980, the 12th annual International Chemistry Olympiad, that the event was held outside of the bloc in Austria. Up to 4 students for each national team compete around July in both a theoretical and an experimental sections, with about half of the participants being awarded medals.  About  The International Chemistry Olympiad is an annual competition for the world's most talented chemistry students at the secondary school level. Nations around the world send a team of four students who are tested on their chemistry knowledge and skills in a five-hour laboratory practical exam and a five-hour written theoretical examination that are held on separate days with the practical examination usually being before the theoretical examination. Countries who wish to participate in the...
Chemistry Building may refer to: Gilman Hall, long known as the Chemistry Building, home of University of California at Berkeley College of Chemistry Old Main and Chemistry Building at Widener University Seeley G. Mudd Chemistry Building at Vassar College University of Arkansas Chemistry Building University of Melbourne Chemistry Building
Open Chemistry is a monthly peer-reviewed open access scientific journal covering all fields of chemistry. It is published by Walter de Gruyter. The editor-in-chief is Joaqun Plumet, .  History  The journal was established in 2003 as the Central European Journal of Chemistry. It was co-published by Springer ScienceBusiness Media and Versita . By the end of 2014 the journal was moved completely to De Gruyter, obtaining its current title and switching to full open access.  Abstracting and indexing  The journals is abstracted and indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 2.3.  References   External links  Official website
Photolithography is a process in removing select portions of thin films used in microfabrication. Microfabrication is the production of parts on the micro- and nano- scale, typically on the surface of silicon wafers, for the production of integrated circuits, microelectromechanical systems , solar cells, and other devices. Photolithography makes this process possible through the combined use of hexamethyldisilazane , photoresist , spin coating, photomask, an exposure system and other various chemicals. By carefully manipulating these factors it is possible to create nearly any geometry microstructure on the surface of a silicon wafer. The chemical interaction between all the different components and the surface of the silicon wafer makes photolithography an interesting chemistry problem. Current engineering has been able to create features on the surface of silicon wafers between 1 and 100 m.  Silicon wafer  Silicon wafers are cut from a solid ingot of nearly-pure silicon. This is done through the process of Czochralski growth, which is diagramed in the adjacent image, and produces a single intact diamond cubic silicon crystal. Due...
Boron is a chemical element it has symbol B and atomic number 5. In its crystalline form it is a brittle, dark, lustrous metalloid in its amorphous form it is a brown powder. As the lightest element of the boron group it has three valence electrons for forming covalent bonds, resulting in many compounds such as boric acid, the mineral sodium borate, and the ultra-hard crystals of boron carbide and boron nitride. Boron is synthesized entirely by cosmic ray spallation and supernovas and not by stellar nucleosynthesis, so it is a low-abundance element in the Solar System and in the Earth's crust. It constitutes about 0.001 percent by weight of Earth's crust. It is concentrated on Earth by the water-solubility of its more common naturally occurring compounds, the borate minerals. These are mined industrially as evaporites, such as borax and kernite. The largest known deposits are in Turkey, the largest producer of boron minerals. Elemental boron is found in small amounts in meteoroids, but chemically uncombined boron is not otherwise found naturally on Earth. Several allotropes exist: amorphous boron is a brown powder crystalline boron is silvery to black, extremely hard 9.3 on the...
Organoarsenic chemistry is the chemistry of compounds containing a chemical bond between arsenic and carbon. A few organoarsenic compounds, also called organoarsenicals, are produced industrially with uses as insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides. In general these applications are declining in step with growing concerns about their impact on the environment and human health. The parent compounds are arsane and arsenic acid. Despite the toxicity of arsenic metal, organoarsenic compounds can be found in nature.  History  Surprising for an area now considered of minor importance, organoarsenic chemistry played a prominent role in chemistry's history. The oldest known organoarsenic compound, the foul smelling cacodyl was reported in cacodyl and is sometimes classified as the first synthetic organometallic compound. The compound Salvarsan was one of the first pharmaceuticals, earning a Nobel prize for Paul Ehrlich. Various other organoarsenic compounds formerly found use as antibiotics or other medical uses.  Synthesis and classification  Arsenic typically occurs in the oxidation states and , illustrated by the halides As3 and...
Polymer Chemistry is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry covering all aspects of the chemistry of synthetic and biological macromolecules and related emerging areas. It was established in February 2010 as a monthly journal and switched to biweekly in 2013. The editor-in-chief is Christopher Barner-Kowollik , while the executive editor is Neil Hammond. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 5.364.  See also  List of scientific journals in chemistry Soft Matter  References   External links  Official website
Macromolecular Chemistry and Physics is a biweekly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering polymer science. It publishes full papers, talents, trends, and highlights in all areas of polymer science, from chemistry to physical chemistry, physics, and materials science.  History  Macromolecular Chemistry and Physics was established in 1947 as Die Makromolekulare ChemieMacromolecular Chemistry by Hermann Staudinger and obtained its current title in 1994. According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 2.996.  See also  Macromolecular Rapid Communications, 1979 Macromolecular Theory and Simulations, 1992 Macromolecular Materials and Engineering, 2000 Macromolecular Bioscience, 2001 Macromolecular Reaction Engineering, 2007  References   External links  Official website
Solid-state chemistry, also referred to as materials chemistry, is the study of the synthesis, structure, and properties of solid phase materials. It therefore has a strong overlap with solid-state physics, mineralogy, crystallography, ceramics, metallurgy, thermodynamics, materials science and electronics with a focus on the synthesis of novel materials and their characterization. A diverse range of synthetic techniques, such as the ceramic method and chemical vapour deposition, make solid-state materials. Solids can be classified as crystalline or amorphous on basis of the nature of order present in the arrangement of their constituent particles. Their elemental compositions, microstructures, and physical properties can be characterized through a variety of analytical methods.  History  Because of its direct relevance to products of commerce, solid state inorganic chemistry has been strongly driven by technology. Progress in the field has often been fueled by the demands of industry, sometimes in collaboration with academia. Applications discovered in the 20th century include zeolite and platinum-based catalysts for petroleum processing in the 1950s, high-purity silicon as a...
Organomagnesium chemistry, a subfield of organometallic compounds, refers to the study of magnesium compounds that contains Mg-C bonds. Magnesium is the second element in group 2 , and the ionic radius of Mg2 is 86 pm, which is larger than Be2 and smaller than the heavier alkaline earth metal dications , in accordance with periodic trends. Magnesium is less covalent compared to beryllium, and the radius is not large enough for accommodating large number of ligands compared to calcium, strontium and barium. Thus, organomagnesium compounds exhibit unique structure and reactivity in group 2. From the perspective of applications, the Grignard reagents are the most important type of organomagnesium compound. They are widely used in synthetic chemistry, especially in organic synthesis, as a robust source of carbanion. Most other directions in organomagnesium chemistry are mainly of academic interest. Organomagnesium compounds are usually colorless. They are highly reactive toward air: water resulting on protonolysis, O2 giving peroxides and alkoxides, and CO2 giving carboxylates.  Carbon as anionic -ligand  3...
Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier  l-VWAH-zee-ay French:  26 August 1743 - 8 May 1794, also Antoine Lavoisier after the French Revolution, was a French nobleman and chemist who was central to the 18th-century chemical revolution and who had a large influence on both the history of chemistry and the history of biology. It is generally accepted that Lavoisier's great accomplishments in chemistry stem largely from his changing the science from a qualitative to a quantitative one. Lavoisier is noted for his discovery of the role oxygen plays in combustion, opposing the prior phlogiston theory of combustion. He named oxygen , recognizing it as an element, and also recognized hydrogen as an element . By using more precise measurements than previous experimenters, he confirmed the developing theory that, although matter in a closed system may change its form or shape, its mass always remains the same now known as the law of conservation of mass, which led to the development of the balanced physical and chemical reaction equations that we still use today. Lavoisier helped construct the metric system, wrote the first extensive list of elements, in which...
Products are the chemical species formed from chemical reactions. During a chemical reaction, reactants are transformed into products after passing through a high energy transition state. This process results in the consumption of the reactants. It can be a spontaneous reaction or mediated by catalysts which lower the energy of the transition state, and by solvents which provide the chemical environment necessary for the reaction to take place. When represented in chemical equations, products are by convention drawn on the right-hand side, even in the case of reversible reactions. The properties of products such as their energies help determine several characteristics of a chemical reaction, such as whether the reaction is exergonic or endergonic. Additionally, the properties of a product can make it easier to extract and purify following a chemical reaction, especially if the product has a different state of matter than the reactants. Much of chemistry research is focused on the synthesis and characterization of beneficial products, as well as the detection and removal of undesirable products. Synthetic chemists can be subdivided into research chemists who design new chemicals and...
A chemical element is a species of atom defined by its number of protons. The number of protons is called the atomic number of that element. For example, oxygen has an atomic number of 8: each oxygen atom has 8 protons in its nucleus. Atoms of the same element can have different numbers of neutrons in their nuclei, known as isotopes of the element. Atoms of one element can be transformed into atoms of a different element in nuclear reactions, which change an atom's atomic number. Almost all baryonic matter in the universe is composed of elements . The term chemical element is also widely used to mean a pure chemical substance consisting of a single element. For example, oxygen gas consists only of atoms of oxygen. Historically, the term chemical element meant a substance that cannot be broken down into constituent substances by chemical reactions, and for most practical purposes this definition still has validity. There was some controversy in the 1920s over whether isotopes deserved to be recognised as separate elements if they could be separated by chemical means. By November 2016, the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry...
Chemistry: An Asian Journal is a peer-reviewed scientific journal that publishes articles on all areas of chemistry and related fields. It is published by Wiley-VCH on behalf of the Asian Chemical Editorial Society.  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is indexed and abstracted in the following bibliographic databases: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2025 impact factor of 3.2, ranking it 121nd out of 250 in the category Multidisciplinary Chemistry.  References   External links  Official website
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 840 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
KornShell is a Unix shell which was developed by David Korn at Bell Labs in the early 1980s and announced at USENI on July 14, 1983. The initial development was based on Bourne shell source code. Other early contributors were Bell Labs developers Mike Veach and Pat Sullivan, who wrote the Emacs and vi-style line editing modes' code, respectively. KornShell is backward-compatible with the Bourne shell and includes many features of the C shell, inspired by the requests of Bell Labs users.  Features  KornShell complies with POSI.2, Shell and Utilities, Command Interpreter Major differences between KornShell and the traditional Bourne shell include: job control, command aliasing, and command history designed after the corresponding C shell features job control was added to the Bourne Shell in 1989 a choice of three command line editing styles based on vi, Emacs, and Gosling Emacs associative arrays and built-in floating-point arithmetic operations only available in the ksh93 version of KornShell dynamic search for functions mathematical functions process substitution and process redirection C-language-like expressions enhanced expression-oriented...
Git is a distributed version control software system that is capable of managing versions of source code or data. It is often used to control source code by programmers who are developing software collaboratively. It was originally created by Linus Torvalds for version control in the development of the Linux kernel. Design goals of Git include speed, data integrity, and support for distributed, non-linear workflows-thousands of parallel branches running on different computers. As with most other distributed version control systems, and unlike most client-server systems, Git maintains a local copy of the entire repository, also known as the repo, with history and version-tracking abilities, independent of network access or a central server. A repository is stored on each computer in a standard directory with additional, hidden files to provide version control capabilities. Git provides features to synchronize changes between repositories that share history for asynchronous collaboration, this extends to repositories on remote machines. Although all repositories are peers, developers often use a central server to host a repository to hold an integrated copy...
nginx pronounced engine x EN-jin-EKS, stylized as NGIN is a web server that can also be used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, mail proxy and HTTP cache. The software was created by Russian developer Igor Sysoev and publicly released in 2004. nginx is free and open-source software, released under the terms of the 2-clause BSD license. A large fraction of web servers use nginx, often as a load balancer. A company of the same name was founded in 2011 to provide support and NGIN Plus paid software. In March 2019, the company was acquired by F5 for 670 million.  Popularity  As of April 2025, W3Tech's web server count of all web sites ranked nginx first with 33.8. Apache was second at 26.4 and Cloudflare Server third at 23.4. As of March 2020, Netcraft estimated that nginx served 20.11 of the million busiest websites with Cloudflare a little ahead at 22.99. Apache at 17.83 and Microsoft Internet Information Services at 4.16 rounded out the top four servers for the busiest websites. Some of Netcraft's other statistics show nginx ahead of Apache. A 2018 survey of Docker usage found that nginx was the most commonly deployed technology in Docker containers...
Three.js is a cross-browser JavaScript library and application programming interface used to create and display animated 3D computer graphics in a web browser using WebGL. The source code is hosted in a repository on GitHub.  Overview  Three.js allows the creation of graphical processing unit -accelerated 3D animations using the JavaScript language as part of a website without relying on proprietary browser plugins. This is possible due to the advent of WebGL, a low-level graphics API created specifically for the web. High-level libraries such as Three.js, Babylon.js, Verge3D and many more make it possible to author complex 3D computer animations for display in the browser without the effort required for a traditional standalone application or a plugin.  History  Three.js was first released by Ricardo Cabello on GitHub in April 2010. The origins of the library can be traced back to his involvement with the demoscene in the early 2000s. The code was originally developed in the ActionScript language used by Adobe Flash, later being ported to JavaScript in 2009. In Cabello's mind, there were two strong points that justified the shift away from ActionScript: Firstly,...
JSON Web Token JWT, suggested pronunciation , same as the word jot is a proposed Internet standard for creating data with optional signature andor optional encryption whose payload holds JSON that asserts some number of claims. The tokens are signed either using a private secret or a publicprivate key. For example, a server could generate a token that has the claim logged in as administrator and provide that to a client. The client could then use that token to prove that it is logged in as admin. The tokens can be signed by one party's private key so that any party can subsequently verify whether the token is legitimate. If the other party, by some suitable and trustworthy means, is in possession of the corresponding public key, they too are able to verify the token's legitimacy. The tokens are designed to be compact, URL-safe, and usable, especially in a web-browser single-sign-on context. JWT claims can typically be used to pass identity of authenticated users between an identity provider and a service provider, or any other type of claims as required by business processes. JWT relies on other JSON-based standards: JSON Web Signature and JSON Web...
Ollama is an open-source software platform developed by Jeffrey Morgan and Michael Chiang in 2023 for running and managing large language models on local GPU infrastructure and through hosted cloud models. It provides a command-line interface, a native GUI, a local REST API, model-management tools, and integrations for using open-weight models with coding assistants and other applications.  History  Ollama was first released in 8 July 2023. The project became associated with the growth of local large language model software, allowing users to download and run models such as Llama, Gemma, Mistral, Qwen, gpt-oss, GLM and DeepSeek on a local machine. In 2025 and 2026, Ollama added additional application and cloud features, including hosted cloud models, web search support, tool and coding-agent integrations, and support for using Ollama with applications such as Claude Code, Codex, OpenCode, Copilot CLI, and OpenClaw. In March 2026, Ollama announced preview support for Apple silicon. In July 2026, the company has raised 65 million dollars in funding.  Features  Ollama includes tools for downloading, running, importing, and managing large language models. Users can run models...
AV1 Image File Format is an open, royalty-free file format specification for storing images or image sequences compressed with AV1. An AVIF file is designed to be a conformant HEIF file for both image items and image sequences. Specifically, this specification follows the recommendations given in Annex I: Guidelines On Defining New Image Formats and Brands of HEIF. This specification reuses syntax and semantics used in the specification for the AV1 Codec ISO Media File Format Binding. In tests by Netflix in 2020, AVIF showed better compression efficiency than JPEG, as well as better detail preservation, fewer blocking artifacts and less color bleeding around hard edges in composites of natural images, text, and graphics. AVIF has been supported by all major web browsers since 2024, with over 93 of users worldwide on compatible browsers.  Features  The AV1 Image File Format supports: Multiple color spaces, including: HDR with PQ or HLG transfer functions and BT.2020 color primaries, as part of BT.2100 Supports HDR gain map approach, backwards compatible with SDR displays, but no encoder is currently available. SDR with sRGB  BT.709  BT.601 or with...
George Raymond Johnson was an architect who practiced in late 19th century Melbourne and Perth, Australia. He is known for designing numerous important buildings, especially town halls and theatres.  Biography  Johnson was born in Southgate, England and at age 13 began working with George Hall, Midland Railway architect. At 19 he moved to London, presumably to continue his architectural career. On 24 July 1862 he married Emma Louise Wood and, two days later, the couple embarked on a journey of emigration to Queensland. In 1867, Johnson moved to Melbourne, where he produced most of his major works. Following the bank crash in 1895 he moved to Perth, Western Australia, establishing a practice there. In 1898, while at sea returning to Melbourne, Johnson contracted sepsis, and died. One son, Harry Johnson , also became an architect.  Architectural works  Johnson is known today for the design of a number of town halls across Victoria, notably the impressive Collingwood Town Hall, probably the most elaborate of the grand towered Second Empire style town halls that characterised the boom years of Melbourne in the 1880s. However he achieved...
Fairtrade Ireland is the Irish member of FLO International, which unites 23 Fairtrade producer and labelling initiatives across Europe, Asia, Latin America, North America, Africa, Australia and New Zealand. The organisation, which is registered as a charity, awards a consumer label, the Fairtrade Certification Mark, to products which meet internationally recognised standards of Fairtrade. It is supported by Amnesty International, ActionAid Ireland, Christian Aid, Comhlmh, Concern, Oxfam, Trcaire and the Irish Congress of Trade Unions and is active throughout Ireland through a network of volunteers. The first Irish product bearing the Fairtrade Mark, Bewley's Direct coffee, was launched in November 1996. Today, dozens of Irish products bear the Fairtrade Mark, and Fairtrade products are sold by most major Irish supermarkets, such as Tesco, Dunnes Stores, Londis, Marks  Spencer, Superquinn, Supervalu, Centra, and Spar. Fairtrade Ireland's most active campaign is the Fairtrade Town programme. As of 2017, there were 49 registered Fairtrade Towns in Ireland. Fairtrade Ireland also runs the Fairtrade Schools, Fairtrade College, Fairtrade Ambassador, and FairtradeWork programs throughout...
Grete Unrein ne Grete Abbe, 18 November 1872-5 November 1945 was a German politician from Jena active during the Weimar Republic, with a particular interest in social services. With her husband Otto Unrein she established the Jena Lyceum in 1912, now the Grete Unrein Comprehensive School .  Biography  The eldest daughter of wealthy industrialist Ernst Abbe, Grete Unrein had a long history of work with charitable institutions in Jena. Since the founding of the Jena Children's Hospital she endeavoured to improve its economic situation, and was also head of the Jena maternity home, a board member and chairwoman of the women's union of the Red Cross, and a patron and board member of the reading hall club . One of her most important efforts was in providing girls and young women with equal opportunities for training and in establishing their own professions. It is thanks to Unrein's tireless work that the city of Jena took on this goal and built a higher school for girls, the Jena Lyceum. Together with her husband Otto Unrein, the Lyceum's first rector, she worked to expand the Lyceum until it offered education to the Abitur...
Dorsifulcrum is a genus of moths in the family Geometridae erected by Claude Herbulot in 1979.  Species  Dorsifulcrum acutum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum albescens Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum bicolor Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum canui Herbulot, 1998 Dorsifulcrum cephalotes Dorsifulcrum excavatum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum fuscum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum latum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum meloui Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum mus Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum pinheyi Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum reductum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum reflexum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum rotundum Herbulot, 1979 Dorsifulcrum xeron Herbulot, 1979  References   External links  Pitkin, Brian  Jenkins, Paul. Search results Family: Geometridae. Butterflies and Moths of the World. Natural History Museum, London.
The Pan American Judo Confederation is an international organization comprising most of the national Judo federations and associations of the Americas, and is one of five such continental organizations recognized by the International Judo Federation. The PJC replaced the Pan American Judo Union when it was founded in 2009, a decision which has been contested by the remaining members of the PJU.  Events  Judo at the Pan American Games Judo at the Central American Games Judo at the South American Games Judo at the Central American and Caribbean Games Pan American Judo Championships Pan American Junior Judo Championships Pan American Cadet Judo Championships Pan American U15 Judo Championships South American Judo Championships South American Junior Judo Championships South American Cadet Judo Championships  See also  List of judo organizations Judo by country  References   External links  Official website
An act of faith is a prayer in which a person professes the beliefs of Christianity. In the Catholic Church, an individual is required to make an act of faith when they come to the age of accountability. An example of an act of faith is as follows:  See also  Creed Confirmation Sinner's prayer, evangelical term referring to an act of conversion  References 
Provision may refer to: Provision , a term for liability in accounting Provision , a term for a procurement condition Provision , an album by Scritti Politti A term for the distribution, storing andor rationing of supplies, typically food or drink: Ground provisions, root vegetables used in Caribbean cuisine  See also  Provisioning Proviso
Inverquiech Castle is a ruined 13th-century castle near Inverquiech, Perth and Kinross, Scotland.  History  Built at the confluence of the Quiech Burn and the River Isla. Inverquiech was a royal castle, with Alexander II of Scotland signing a charter here in 1244. Edward I of England stayed one night at the castle during his invasion of Scotland in 1296, before travelling to Forfar. The castle was in the hands of the Lindsay family in the 14th century.  References  Coventry, Martin. Castles of the Clans: the strongholds and seats of 750 Scottish families and clans. Musselburgh. p. 335. Prestwich, Michael . Edward I. New Haven, US: Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-07209-0
VegfestAU is a vegan food festival held annually in Sydney and Melbourne on or around World Vegan Day, 1 November.  Sydney  During the 2010s, Sydney ran an annual Cruelty Free Festival each 25 October.  Melbourne  The IVU encourages regional and national organizations to run vegetarian festivals. The 43rd World Vegfest was held in Sydney and Melbourne in October 2015. On 1 November each year, annual World Vegan Day celebrations will be conducted in Melbourne.  Other vegan festivals in Oceania  Other annual vegan festivals are scheduled in Oceania.  Australia   Adelaide  Adelaide celebrates World Vegan Day every year on a Sunday in November. The first Vegan Festival was held on 4 November 2007. The event is possible because of many individual volunteers and members of various organizations. Kas Ward created the Vegan Festival in Adelaide and is the main event coordinator. M.A.D. FREE Weekend in Adelaide celebrates World Vegan Day in November. 13-15 November 2009.  Melbourne  Since 2003, World Vegan Day has been celebrated in Melbourne on the last Sunday of October. The event was initiated by members of the vegan social group Vegans Unite and is now organized...
The 10th Edition of the Acropolis International Basketball Tournament 1996 found between the 5th and 7th. July 1996 in the suburb Marousi from Athens. The total of six games were played in the Olympic Hall. In addition to the host Greek national team also include the national teams Italy and Germany part. The field of participants completed a selection from the United States. While it was Germany's first participation in the Acropolis tournament, the Italians took part for the sixth time. The following players took part in the tournament for the German national team:Stephen Arigbabu, Andr Bade, Vladimir Bogojevi, Patrick Femerling, Jrg Ltcke, Jrgen Malbeck, Tim Nees, Ademola Okulaja, Marko Pei, Malik Ruddigkeit, Gerrit Terdenge, Drazan Tomic and Denis Wucherer.  Venues   Participating teams  Germany Greece Italy NIT All Stars  Standings   Results   Final standings   References   External links  Acropolis Tournament Basket.gr Acropolis Cup History Search Results
Le Volant d'Or de Toulouse is an international badminton open tournament held annually in France since 1996. It was halted in 2001 and 2005, and with a prize money of 15.000 US Dollar it belonged to the BE-Circuit. It was last held in 2009.  Previous winners   Performances by nation   External links  Official website
The giant pocket gopher , also known as the Oaxacan pocket gopher, is a species of rodent in the family Geomyidae. It is found in Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. It is the type species of the genus Orthogeomys some zoologists also include in this genus species that have recently been placed in Heterogeomys. It is 22-30 cm long, and 480-985 g in weight.  References 
The Cowboy is a Prohibition era cocktail made with Scotch and cream. It's been described as a terrible drink by Paul Dickson, added to later editions of Patrick Gavin Duffy's book The Standard Bartenders Guide. It also appears in The Savoy Cocktail Book by Harry Craddock. When dark rum is added, it's called a Midnight Cowboy. It's shaken with ice and served in a cocktail glass.  References 
George K. Brandriff was an American painter, and the president of the Laguna Beach Art Association. He committed suicide at age 46.  Life  Brandriff was born in 1890 in Millville, New Jersey. He grew up in Vineland, New Jersey and moved to California in 1913 to attend the University of Southern California. Brandriff became a painter in the art colony of Laguna Beach, California, and he served as the president of the Laguna Beach Art Association. He was also a member of the California Art Club. He exhibited his work in many museums, including the Biltmore Salon, the Los Angeles Museum, and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. Brandriff married Frances Conder. He committed suicide by shooting himself on August 15, 1936, in Laguna Beach, at age 46.  References 
Amice Calverley was an English-born Canadian Egyptologist who was instrumental to the recording and publication of the decoration in the temple of King Sethos I at Abydos. During and after World War II she engaged in humanitarian work, including in Crete where she nursed at the front and filmed the conflict. She then used her filming as publicity to seek assistance for those disabled as a result of the conflict. She was also a music composer, with many works in chamber music and orchestral music, such as the String Quartet in F minor and the Variations on a Harmonic Theme.  Early life  Amice Mary Calverley was born in London, England on 9 April 1896. Her family first moved to South Africa, then on to Canada. She studied music and earned some money from her needlework, before going to New York where she worked as a mannequin and dress-designer at Wanamaker's Store. After gaining a scholarship in 1922 to study at the Royal College of Music she returned to England. In 1926 she started to teach herself drawing for archaeology, during which process she upset a bottle of ink over an 'immemorial sherd' at the British Museum, and became involved with the Egyptian...
YTV was an Israeli television channel produced by Synergy for Yes. It started broadcasting in 2000, was later renamed Yes Y and subsequently shut down.  History  The channel started on September 24, 2000, coinciding with the launch of the Yes satellite television platform, its main show was Y Tonight . The channel's website used Macromedia Flash technology. In addition to original content, it also aired foreign programming such as Da Ali G Show. In January 2001, it signed a cooperation agreement with FM100, in which its top 20 chart show was simulcast on the radio station and on Kol Regat in Amakim. To counter the introduction of Virgin Mobile, Cellcom partnered with the channel for promotional campaigns, as well as the usage of its network to deliver text messages. The Cable and Satellite Broadcasting Council forbade Yes from marketing YTV as a kids and youth channel on July 31, 2003, on the grounds that it had sexual content seen as intense, bordering on flagrant. The key findings also found out that the channel aired programming with sexual content during daytime. On August 1, 2004, Yes realigned its channels and rebranded YTV as Yes Y. Promotheus, the company in charge...
Scintilla is a free, open-source library that provides a text editing component function, with an emphasis on advanced features for source code editing.  Features  Scintilla supports many features to make code editing easier in addition to syntax highlighting. The highlighting method allows the use of different fonts, colors, styles and background colors, and is not limited to fixed-width fonts. The control supports error indicators, line numbering in the margin, as well as line markers such as code breakpoints. Other features such as code folding and autocompletion can be added. The basic regular expression search implementation is rudimentary, but if compiled with C11 support Scintilla can support the runtime's regular expression engine. Scintilla's regular expression library can also be replaced or avoided with direct buffer access. Currently, Scintilla has experimental support for right-to-left languages. Scinterm is a version of Scintilla for the curses text user interface. It is written by the developer of the Textadept editor. Scinterm uses Unicode characters to support some of Scintilla's graphically oriented features, but some Scintilla features are missing because...
In philosophy, a quality is an attribute or a property characteristic of an object. In contemporary philosophy the idea of qualities, and especially how to distinguish certain kinds of qualities from one another, remains controversial.  Background  Aristotle analyzed qualities in his work on logic, the Categories. To him, qualities are hylomorphically-formal attributes, such as white or grammatical. Categories of state, such as shod and armed are also non-essential qualities . Aristotle observed: one and the selfsame substance, while retaining its identity, is yet capable of admitting contrary qualities. The same individual person is at one time white, at another black, at one time warm, at another cold, at one time good, at another bad. This capacity is found nowhere else... it is the peculiar mark of substance that it should be capable of admitting contrary qualities for it is by itself changing that it does so. Aristotle described four types of qualitative opposites: correlatives, contraries, privatives and positives. John Locke presented a distinction between primary and secondary qualities in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. For Locke, a...
Aztec philosophy was a school of philosophy that developed out of Aztec culture. Aztec cosmology was in some sense dualistic, but exhibited a less common form of it known as dialectical monism. Aztec philosophy also included ethics and aesthetics. It has been asserted that the central question in Aztec philosophy was how people can find stability and balance in an ephemeral world.  Beliefs  Aztec philosophy saw the concept of Ometeotl as a unity that underlies the universe. Ometeotl forms, shapes, and is all things. Even things in opposition-light, and dark, life and death-were seen as expressions of the same unity, Ometeotl. The belief in a unity with dualistic expressions compares with similar dialectical monist ideas in both Western and Eastern philosophies.  Relation to Aztec religion  Aztec priests had a panentheistic view of religion but the popular Aztec religion maintained polytheism. Priests saw the different gods as aspects of the singular and transcendent unity of Teotl but the masses were allowed to practice polytheism without understanding the true, unified nature of their Aztec gods.  Moral beliefs and aesthetics  Aztec philosophers focused on morality...
In contemporary mereology, a simple or indivisible monomere is any thing that has no proper parts. Sometimes the term atom is used, although in recent years the term simple has become the standard. Simples are to be contrasted with atomless gunk where something is gunky if it is such that every proper part has a further proper part a potential omnidivisible. Necessarily, given the definitions, everything is either composed of simples, gunk or a mixture of the two. Classical mereology is consistent with both the existence of gunk and either finite or infinite simples .  The Simple Question  Mirroring the special composition question is the Simple Question. It asks what the jointly necessary and sufficient conditions are for x to be a mereological simple. In the literature this question explicitly concerns what it is for a material object to lack proper parts, although there is no reason why similar questions cannot be asked of things from other ontological categories. There have been many suggested answers to the Simple Question. Answers include that x is a simple if and only if it is a point-sized object that...
In Chinese philosophy, yi simplified Chinese:  traditional Chinese:  pinyin: y refers to righteousness, justice, morality, and meaning.  Confucianism  In Confucianism, yi involves a moral disposition to do good, and also the intuition and sensibility to do so competently. Yi represents moral acumen which goes beyond simple rule following, involving a balanced understanding of a situation, and the creative insight and decision-generating ability necessary to apply virtues properly and appropriately in a situation with no loss of sight of the total good. Yi resonates with Confucian philosophy's orientation towards the cultivation of benevolence and ritual propriety . In application, yi is a complex principle which includes: skill in crafting actions which have moral fitness according to a given concrete situation the wise recognition of such fitness the intrinsic satisfaction that comes from that recognition  Daoism  The Zhuangzi discusses the relationship between yi and de .  See also  De Moral character Phronesis  References   Bibliography 
An accident , in metaphysics and philosophy, is a property that the entity or substance has contingently, without which the substance can still retain its identity. An accident does not affect its essence, according to many philosophers. It does not mean an accident as used in common speech, a chance incident, normally harmful. Examples of accidents are color, taste, movement, and stagnation. Accident is contrasted with essence: a designation for the property or set of properties that make an entity or substance what it fundamentally is, and which it has by necessity, and without which it loses its identity. Aristotle made a distinction between the essential and accidental properties of a thing. Thomas Aquinas and other Catholic theologians have employed the Aristotelian concepts of substance and accident in articulating the theology of the Eucharist, particularly the transubstantiation of bread and wine into body and blood. In modern philosophy, an accident is the union of two concepts: property and contingency. Non-essentialism argues that every property is an accident. Modal necessitarianism argues that all properties are essential and...
Jewish philosophy includes all philosophy carried out by Jews or in relation to the religion of Judaism. Until the modern Haskalah and Jewish emancipation, Jewish philosophy was preoccupied with attempts to reconcile coherent new ideas into the tradition of Rabbinic Judaism, thus organizing emergent ideas that are not necessarily Jewish into a uniquely Jewish scholastic framework and worldview. With their admission into broader modern society, Jews with secular educations embraced or developed entirely new philosophies to meet the world's demands in which they now found themselves. Medieval rediscovery of ancient Greek philosophy among the Geonim of 10th-century Babylonian academies brought rationalist philosophy into Biblical-Talmudic Judaism. During the Geonic period, philosophy was generally in competition with Kabbalah. Both schools would become part of classic Rabbinic literature, though the decline of scholastic rationalism coincided with historical events that drew Jews to the Kabbalistic approach. For the Ashkenazi Jews of Western Europe, emancipation and encounters with secular thought from the 18th century onwards altered how...
Existence is the state of having being or reality in contrast to nonexistence and nonbeing. Existence is often contrasted with essence: the essence of an entity is its essential features or qualities, which can be understood even if one does not know whether the entity exists. Ontology is the philosophical discipline studying the nature and types of existence. Singular existence is the existence of individual entities while general existence refers to the existence of concepts or universals. Entities present in space and time have concrete existence in contrast to abstract entities, like numbers and sets. Other distinctions are between possible, contingent, and necessary existence and between physical and mental existence. The common view is that an entity either exists or not with nothing in between, but some philosophers say that there are degrees of existence, meaning that some entities exist to a higher degree than others. The orthodox position in ontology is that existence is a second-order property, or a property of properties. For example, to say that lions exist means that the property of being a lion is possessed by at least one entity. A different view sees existence as a...
Neoplatonism is a version of Platonic philosophy that emerged in the 3rd century AD against the background of Hellenistic philosophy and religion. The term does not encapsulate a set of distinct ideas based on a form of Platonism as much as a series of Platonic thinkers coming primarily from a certain ancient historical period. Among the common ideas it maintains is monism, the doctrine that all of reality can be derived from a single principle, the One. Neoplatonism began with Ammonius Saccas and his student Plotinus and stretched to the sixth century. After Plotinus there were three distinct periods in the history of Neoplatonism: the work of his student Porphyry  that of Iamblichus  and the period in the fifth and sixth centuries, when the academies in Alexandria and Athens flourished. Neoplatonism had an enduring influence on the subsequent history of Western philosophy and religion. In the Middle Ages, Neoplatonic ideas were studied and discussed by Christian, Jewish, and Muslim thinkers. In the Islamic cultural sphere, Neoplatonic texts were available in Arabic and Persian translations, and notable philosophers...
Akan philosophy is a form of African philosophy in the conceptual system of Akan people, a meta-ethnic group native to West Africa. In contemporary work, Akan philosophy has been most influential in metaphysical and ethical discussion of the concept of personhood. In common with other strands of African philosophy, Akan philosophers such as Kwasi Wiredu have developed the view that personhood exists in degrees such that personhood is something for a human to become to different degrees through individual achievement.  References 
Albert Camus  kam-OO French:  7 November 1913 - 4 January 1960 was a French philosopher, writer, and political activist. He was the recipient of the 1957 Nobel Prize in Literature at the age of 44, the second-youngest recipient in history, and the first laureate in literature born in Africa. His works include The Stranger, The Plague, The Myth of Sisyphus, The Fall and The Rebel. Camus was born in French Algeria to pied-noir parents. He spent his childhood in a poor neighbourhood and later studied philosophy at the University of Algiers. He was in Paris when the Germans invaded France during World War II in 1940. Camus tried to flee but finally joined the French Resistance where he served as editor-in-chief at Combat, an outlawed newspaper. After the war, he was a celebrity figure and gave many lectures around the world. He married twice but had many extramarital affairs. Camus was politically active he was part of the left that opposed Joseph Stalin and the Soviet Union because of their totalitarianism. Camus was a moralist and leaned towards anarcho-syndicalism. He was part of many organisations seeking European integration. During the Algerian War , he...
Bachelor of Philosophy BPhil or PhB Latin: Baccalaureus Philosophiae or Philosophiae Baccalaureus or Baccalaureus in Philosophia is the title of an academic degree in philosophy that usually involves considerable research, either through a thesis or supervised research projects. Unlike many other bachelor's degrees, the BPhil is typically awarded to individuals who have already completed a traditional undergraduate degree.  Australia   Australian National University  The Bachelor of Philosophy is an individually tailored, research-based undergraduate degree in artssocial sciences or the natural sciences. Students undertake supervised research courses, entitled Advanced Studies Courses, each semester with researching academics, often on a one-to-one basis. Admission is open to the top one per cent of school-leavers . The duration of the program is four years, including an honours year, where a research thesis is undertaken. In order to graduate with the degree, students are required to maintain a high distinction average across all courses in each semester of the degree and must complete the honours year with first-class...
Nihilism is a family of philosophical views that reject the existence of any objectively meaningful purpose, moral value, truth, knowledge, or related concepts. Nihilistic views span several branches of philosophy, including ethics, value theory, epistemology, and metaphysics. Nihilism is also described as a broad cultural phenomenon or historical movement that pervades modernity in the Western world. Existential nihilism asserts that life has no objective meaning or purpose. The idea that all individual and societal values are ultimately pointless has been associated with various responses. They range from general indifference and existential crises to transformative reinterpretations of established ideals and a creative embrace of personal meaning-making. Moral nihilism, a related view, denies the objective existence of morality, arguing that moral evaluations and practices rest on misguided assumptions without any foundation in external reality. In epistemology or the theory of knowledge, nihilism challenges knowledge and truth. According to relativism, knowledge, truth, or meaning are relative to the perspectives of specific individuals or cultural contexts. This implies there is...
American philosophy is philosophy produced by American people in the United States of America, part of American culture. The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy notes that while it lacks a core of defining features, American Philosophy can nevertheless be seen as both reflecting and shaping collective American identity over the history of the nation. The Ivy League colleges such as Harvard, Yale, and Princeton have long been influential in America. Early American philosophy in the 17th and 18th centuries is largely seen as an extension of the European Enlightenment. Colonial America and the American Enlightenment was influenced by the Puritan thought of Samuel Johnson and Jonathan Edwards. The Enlightenment also influenced the philosophy of the American Revolution and Founding Fathers such as Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. A small number of 19th century philosophies are known as uniquely American in origin, namely pragmatism and transcendentalism, with their most prominent proponents being the philosophers William James and Ralph Waldo Emerson respectively. American philosophy since the 20th century is mostly analytic philosophy. Some of the most prominent American analytic...
Synoptic philosophy comes from the Greek word  synoptikos and together with the word philosophy, means the love of wisdom emerging from a coherent understanding of everything together. James L. Christian's Philosophy: An Introduction to the Art of Wondering takes a unique synoptic approach: its author believes that philosophy is critical thinking about the Big Picture. The goal of the book is not merely to introduce the history of formal thinking in western culture, but also to provide students with practical approaches and tools for dealing with some of the enduring questions as they manifest in everyday life. The philosopher Wilfrid Sellars also uses the term synoptic vision.  See also  Interdisciplinarity New Historicism Social constructivism A Syntopicon Systems thinking  References   External links  Wilfrid Sellars , Philosophy and the Scientific Image of Man Jay F. Rosenberg , Fusing the Images: Nachruf for Wilfrid Sellars Introduction: Lawrence Durrell, Text, Hypertext, Intertext
Philosophy, politics and economics, or politics, philosophy and economics , is an academic degree that combines study from three subjects. The first institution to offer degrees in PPE was the University of Oxford in the 1920s. The Oxford PPE course has produced many notable graduates, including numerous British politicians and leaders of other countries. PPE degrees began to be offered at other universities in the 1980s and are now offered at many colleges and universities around the world.  History  Philosophy, politics and economics was established as a degree course at the University of Oxford in the 1920s, as a modern alternative to classics known as literae humaniores or greats at Oxford for those entering the civil service. It was thus initially known as modern greats. The first PPE students commenced their course in the autumn of 1921. Initially it was compulsory to study all three subjects for all three years of the course, but in 1970 this requirement was relaxed, and since then students have been able to drop one subject after the first year - most do this, but a minority continue with all three. The philosopher Roy Bhaskar, who studied PPE at Oxford in the...
In Chinese philosophy, taiji Chinese:  pinyin: tij Wade-Giles: tai chi trans. supreme ultimate is a cosmological state of the universe and its affairs on all levels-including the mutually reinforcing, codependent interactions between the two opposing forces of yin and yang , as well as that among the Three Treasures, the four cardinal directions, and the Five Elements-which together ultimately bring about the myriad of things from the Eight directions, each with their own nature. The concept of taiji has reappeared throughout the technological, religious, and philosophical history of the Sinosphere, finding concrete application in techniques developed in acupuncture and traditional Chinese medicine.  Etymology  Taiji is a compound of tai and ji . Used together, taiji may be understood as 'source of the world'. Common English translations of taiji in the cosmological sense include Supreme Ultimate, Supreme Pole, and Great Absolute.  Core concept  Scholars Zhang and Ryden explain the ontological necessity of taiji: Any philosophy that asserts two elements such as the yin-yang of Chinese philosophy...
The Philosophy of Composition is an 1846 essay by the American writer Edgar Allan Poe that elucidates a theory about how good writers write when they write well. He concludes that length, unity of effect and a logical method are important considerations for good writing. He also makes the assertion that the death... of a beautiful woman is unquestionably the most poetical topic in the world. Poe uses the composition of his own poem The Raven as an example. The essay first appeared in the April 1846 issue of Graham's Magazine. It is uncertain if it is an authentic portrayal of Poe's own method.  Poe's philosophy of composition  Generally, the essay introduces three of Poe's theories regarding literature. The author recounts this idealized process by which he says he wrote his most famous poem, The Raven, to illustrate the theory, which is in deliberate contrast to the spontaneous creation explanation put forth, for example, by Coleridge as an explanation for his poem Kubla Khan. Poe's explanation of the process of writing is so rigidly logical, however, that some have suggested the essay was meant as a satire or hoax. The three central elements of Poe's philosophy...
The Encyclopedia of Philosophy is one of the major English encyclopedias of philosophy.  Overview  The first edition of the encyclopedia was edited by philosopher Paul Edwards , and it was published in two separate printings by Macmillan. The first printing of the first edition appeared in 1967 as an 8-volume set of books. The second printing of the first edition appeared in 1972 as a 4-volume set of books, which however still contained all of the material which had been included in the original 8-volume printingformat of the encyclopedia. A Supplement volume to the first edition of the encyclopedia was published in 1996 and was edited by Canadian-born philosopher and educator Donald M. Borchert . This volume titled Supplement is sometimes referred to as Volume 9 of the 8-volume printing of the encyclopedia, or as Volume 5 of the 4-volume printing, although neither the words Volume 9 nor the words Volume 5 appear anywhere on the book. This Supplement volume contains articles on developments in philosophy since 1967, covering new subjects and scholarship updates, and new or revised articles on subjects that were written about...
Buddhist philosophy is the ancient Indian philosophical system that developed within the religio-philosophical tradition of Buddhism. It comprises all the philosophical investigations and systems of rational inquiry that developed among various schools of Buddhism in ancient India following the parinirva of Gautama Buddha , as well as the further developments which followed the spread of Buddhism throughout Asia. Buddhism combines both philosophical reasoning and the practice of meditation. The Buddhist religion presents a multitude of Buddhist paths to liberation and with the expansion of early Buddhism from ancient India to Sri Lanka and subsequently to East Asia and Southeast Asia, Buddhist thinkers have covered topics as varied as cosmology, ethics, epistemology, logic, metaphysics, ontology, phenomenology, the philosophy of mind, the philosophy of time, and soteriology in their analysis of these paths. Pre-sectarian Buddhism was based on empirical evidence gained by the sense organs , and the Buddha seems to have retained a skeptical distance from certain metaphysical questions, refusing to answer them because they were not conducive to...
Jain philosophy or Jaina philosophy refers to the ancient Indian philosophical system of the Jain religion. It comprises all the philosophical investigations and systems of inquiry that developed among the early branches of Jainism in ancient India following the nirvana of the 24th Tirthankar, Mahvra . One of the main features of Jain philosophy is its dualistic metaphysics, which holds that there are two distinct categories of existence: the living, conscious, or sentient entities and the non-living or material entities . Jain texts discuss numerous philosophical topics such as cosmology, epistemology, ethics, metaphysics, ontology, the philosophy of time, and soteriology. Jain thought is primarily concerned with understanding the nature of living beings, how these beings are bound by the processes of karma which are seen as fine material particles and how living beings may be liberated from the cycle of death and rebirth . A peculiarity of Jainism is to essentially associate several renunciatory liberating practices with the imperative of non-violence . Jainism and its philosophical system are also notable for the belief...
In philosophy, similarity or resemblance is a relation between objects that constitutes how much these objects are alike. Similarity comes in degrees: e.g. oranges are more similar to apples than to the moon. It is traditionally seen as an internal relation and analyzed in terms of shared properties: two things are similar because they have a property in common. The more properties they share, the more similar they are. They resemble each other exactly if they share all their properties. So an orange is similar to the moon because they both share the property of being round, but it is even more similar to an apple because additionally, they both share various other properties, like the property of being a fruit. On a formal level, similarity is usually considered to be a relation that is reflexive , symmetric if a is similar to b then b is similar to a and non-transitive a need not resemble c despite a resembling b and b resembling c. Similarity comes in two forms: respective similarity, which is relative to one respect or feature, and overall similarity, which expresses the degree of resemblance between two objects all things considered. There is no...
In philosophy, a trope is a concept with various technical uses, namely these three: In epistemology, a stock argument for attacking beliefs and assumptions In metaphysics, a particular instance of a universal In Hayden White's metahistory, a way or style of presenting history  In epistemology  A trope or mode refers to skeptical stock arguments or ways of refuting dogmatism. There are two sets of these tropes: the ten modes of Aenesidemus and the five modes of Agrippa.  In metaphysics  Trope theory in metaphysics is a version of nominalism. Here, a trope is a particular instance of a property, like the redness of a particular rose, or the specific nuance of green of a specific individual leaf. Trope theories assume that universals are unnecessary. This use of the term goes back to D. C. Williams . The basic problem has been discussed previously in philosophy without using the term trope. The basic problem is the problem of universals. One part of the problem of universals is determining what it is for two tokens to be of the same type. How different things can be the same. The arguments are complex,...
The philosophy of education is the branch of applied philosophy that investigates the nature of education as well as its aims and problems. It also examines the concepts and presuppositions of education theories. It is an interdisciplinary field that draws inspiration from various disciplines both within and outside philosophy, like ethics, political philosophy, psychology, and sociology. Many of its theories focus specifically on education in schools but it also encompasses other forms of education. Its theories are often divided into descriptive theories, which provide a value-neutral description of what education is, and normative theories, which investigate how education should be practiced. A great variety of topics are discussed in the philosophy of education. Some studies provide a conceptual analysis of the fundamental concepts of education. Others center around the aims or purpose of education, like passing on knowledge and the development of the abilities of good reasoning, judging, and acting. An influential discussion concerning the epistemic aims of education is whether education should focus mainly on the transmission of true beliefs or rather on the abilities to reason...
Spiritual philosophy is any philosophy or teaching that pertains to spirituality. It may incorporate religious or esoteric themes. It can include any belief or thought system that embraces the existence of a reality that cannot be physically perceived. Concepts of spiritual philosophy are not universal and differ depending on one's religious and cultural backgrounds. Spiritual philosophy can also be solely based on one's personal and experiential connections. The notions of spiritual philosophy, for some individuals, diverge from the long-standing history and tradition of institutionalised religion with believers of faith using the practices, beliefs and rituals of their organised religion to connect with their spirituality. In these instances, the practice of spiritual philosophy centres around the idea of godgods or the divine. However, spiritual philosophy is not always defined by religion. One's beliefs in spiritual philosophy can be nontechnical and relate to one's individual views and beliefs outside religious frameworks, regardless of one's stance on religion. Whilst the notions of spiritual philosophy are based on widely versed concepts and values in both religious and non...
In philosophy, participation is the inverse of inherence.  Overview  Accidents are said to inhere in substance. Substances, in turn, participate in their accidents. For example, the color red is said to inhere in the red apple. Conversely, the red apple participates in the color red. Participation also is predicated by analogy to a dependence relations between accidents. Thus an act may be said to participate in time in the sense that every act must occur at some time. In a similar way, color may be said to inhere in space, meaning that a color occurs only on the surface of a body-and thus only in space. Inherence, on the other hand, would not normally be predicated analogously of accidents.  See also  Substance theory Methexis  References  Doull, James . The Problem of Participation in Plato's Parmenides. Dionysius. I: 9-26.
Martin Heidegger was a German philosopher whose work was central to the development of phenomenology, hermeneutics, and existentialism. He has had significant impact within subsequent philosophy, social sciences and humanities, and theology. Heidegger's magnum opus, Being and Time , is widely considered one of the most significant works of modern philosophy. In it, he introduced the concept of Dasein to describe the distinctive character of human existence, arguing that humans possess a pre-ontological understanding of being that shapes how they live and act, which he analyzed in terms of the unitary structure of being-in-the-world. Through his analysis of Dasein, Heidegger sought to reawaken what he called the question of being: the fundamental inquiry into what makes entities intelligible as the entities they are. In other words, Heidegger's governing question of being is concerned with what makes beings intelligible as beings. This question, he believed, had been neglected or obscured throughout the history of Western philosophy since the ancient Greeks. His later work turned increasingly to questions of technology,...
Philosophy of a Knife is a 2008 documentary exploitation horror film written, produced, shot, edited, and directed by Andrey Iskanov. It covers the Japanese Army's Unit 731, mixing archival footage, interviews, and extremely graphic reenactments of experiments. The film is four hours long and is presented in two parts . It was shot in black and white and in English. The interviews are shot in color and have English subtitles.  Plot  During World War II in China, a Japanese covert division known as Unit 731 conducts gruesome experiments on humans in its research for biological and chemical warfare.  Release  Philosophy of a Knife was shown at the 2008 Sitges Film Festival. TLA Releasing and Unearthed Films released the unrated film on DVD in July 2008.  Soundtrack  The film features Manoush and Cyanide Savior's song Dead Before Born as well as a song by A. Shevchenko, Forgive Me, with Manoush speaking the introduction to the track. It also includes an original score by Shevchenko. A selection of tracks named Choice Cuts from Philosophy of a Knife has been released as a limited edition double vinyl, plus a bonus CD by Spikerot Records in 2018....
Religious philosophy is philosophical thinking that is influenced and directed as a consequence of teachings from a particular religion. It can be done objectively, but it may also be done as a persuasion tool by believers in that faith. Religious philosophy is concerned with the nature of religion, theories of salvation, and conceptions of god, gods, andor the divine. Due to the historical development of religions, many religions share commonalities concerning their philosophies. These philosophies are often considered to be universal and include beliefs about concepts such as the afterlife, souls, and miracles.  Philosophical commonalities  Religious faith and philosophical reflection are closely interconnected. Religious traditions influence the philosophical thinking and beliefs of adherents within a given religion. Many philosophical commonalities among religions have emerged from shared historical foundations. For example, the Abrahamic religions-including Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Bah Faith, Yazidism, Druze, Samaritanism, and Rastafari-share a number of philosophical themes, although these concepts are expressed differently in their respective religious texts. In...
The Meitei philosophy or Meetei philosophy refers to the philosophical traditions of the Meitei civilisation of Ancient Kangleipak . The philosophical norms are inscribed in the massive materials of many ancient Meitei chronicles. Meitei philosophy is also expressed through classical Meitei proverbs, maxims, songs, and traditional explanations. These materials show serious philosophical thinking about human life, ethics, society, nature, religion, and the future of the land. The philosophy reflects a strong concern for the well-being of people and for harmony between humans, nature, and the spiritual world. Rather than abstract speculation, Meitei philosophy uses everyday experience and simple language to convey its ideas. Meitei philosophy is a practical and experience-based system of thought expressed through simple language and familiar images. It offers guidance on living with balance, humility, responsibility, and awareness of consequences. Its teachings connect personal conduct with social order, spiritual belief, and care for the land. By preserving memory, respecting elders, and maintaining harmony with nature, Meitei philosophy presents...
A sage , in classical philosophy, is someone who has attained wisdom. The term has also been used interchangeably with a 'good person' , and a 'virtuous person' . Some of the earliest accounts of the sage begin with Empedocles' Sphairos. Horace describes the Sphairos as Completely within itself, well-rounded and spherical, so that nothing extraneous can adhere to it, because of its smooth and polished surface. Alternatively, the sage is one who lives according to an ideal which transcends the everyday. Several of the schools of Hellenistic philosophy have the sage as a featured figure. Karl Ludwig Michelet wrote that Greek religion culminated with its true god, the sage Pierre Hadot develops this idea, stating that the moment philosophers achieve a rational conception of God based on the model of the sage, Greece surpasses its mythical representation of its gods. Indeed, the actions of the sage are propounded to be how a god would act in the same situation.  In Platonism and Aristotelianism  In Plato's Symposium, Socrates says the difference between a sage and a philosopher...
Women have made significant contributions to philosophy throughout the history of the discipline. Ancient examples of female philosophers include Maitreyi , Gargi Vachaknavi , Hipparchia of Maroneia and Arete of Cyrene . Some women philosophers were accepted during the medieval and modern eras, but none became part of the Western canon until the 20th and 21st century, when some sources began to accept philosophers like Simone Weil, Susanne Langer, G.E.M. Anscombe, Hannah Arendt, and Simone de Beauvoir into the canon. Despite women participating in philosophy throughout history, there exists a gender imbalance in academic philosophy. This can be attributed to implicit biases against women. Women have had to overcome workplace obstacles like sexual harassment or having their work overlooked or stolen by men. Racial and ethnic minorities are underrepresented in the field of philosophy as well. Minorities and Philosophy , the American Philosophical Association, and the Society for Women in Philosophy are all organizations trying to fix the gender imbalance in academic philosophy. In the early 1800s, some colleges...
In philosophy, a construct is an object which is ideal, that is, an object of the mind or of thought, meaning that its existence may be said to depend upon a subject's mind. This contrasts with any possibly mind-independent objects, the existence of which purportedly does not depend on the existence of a conscious observing subject. Thus, the distinction between these two terms may be compared to that between phenomenon and noumenon in other philosophical contexts and to many of the typical definitions of the terms realism and idealism also. In the correspondence theory of truth, ideas, such as constructs, are to be judged and checked according to how well they correspond with their referents, often conceived as part of a mind-independent reality.  Overview  As mind-dependent objects, concepts that are typically viewed as constructs include the abstract objects designated by such symbols as 3 or 4, or words such as liberty or cold as they are seen as a result of induction or abstraction that can be later applied to observable objects or compared to other constructs. Therefore, scientific hypotheses and theories e.g. evolutionary theory, gravitational theory, as well as classifications...
Vidya figures prominently in all texts pertaining to Indian philosophy - meaning science, learning, knowledge, and scholarship. Most importantly, it refers to valid knowledge, which cannot be contradicted, and true knowledge, which is the intuitively-gained knowledge of the self. Vidya is not mere intellectual knowledge, for the Vedas demand understanding.  Meaning  Vidya primarily means correct knowledge in any field of science, learning, philosophy, or any factual knowledge that cannot be disputed or refuted. Its root is vid , which means to reason upon, knower, finding, knowing, acquiring or understanding.  Hinduism  In Hindu philosophy, vidy refers to the knowledge of the soul or spiritual knowledge it refers to the study of the six schools of Hindu philosophy: Nyaya, Yoga, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Purvamimamsa and Uttaramimamsa. The process of gaining the knowledge of the Atman cannot commence unless one has explored the Prnavidya or Agnividya to the full in all its numerous phase through vidy or upasana to jnana was always the eternal order indicated by the Upanishads. Jnna dawns after the completion and perfection...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 852 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
This comparison covers notable software licenses which are approved by at least one of the following expert groups: the Free Software Foundation, the Open Source Initiative, the Debian Project, or the Fedora Project.  FOSS licenses  FOSS stands for Free and Open Source Software. There is no one universally agreed-upon definition of FOSS software and various groups maintain approved lists of licenses. The Open Source Initiative is one such organization keeping a list of open-source licenses. The Free Software Foundation maintains a list of what it considers free. FSF's free software and OSI's open-source licenses together are called FOSS licenses. There are licenses accepted by the OSI which are not free as per the Free Software Definition. The Open Source Definition allows for further restrictions like price, type of contribution and origin of the contribution, e.g. the case of the NASA Open Source Agreement, which requires the code to be original work. The OSI does not endorse FSF license analysis as per their disclaimer. The FSF's Free Software Definition focuses on the user's unrestricted rights to use a program, to study and modify it, to copy...
The open-core model is a business model for the monetization of open-source software to which a for-profit company provides significant development support. The open-core model primarily involves offering a core or feature-limited version of a software product as free and open-source software, while offering paid versions or add-ons as proprietary software. The term was coined by Andrew Lampitt in 2008. The concept of open-core software has proven to be controversial, as many developers do not consider the business model to be true open-source software. Despite this, open-core models are used by many open-source software companies.  Use of contributor license agreements  Some open-core products require their contributors to sign a contributor license agreement, which either dictates that the copyright of all contributions to the product become the property of its owner, or that the product's owner is given an unlimited, non-exclusive license to use the contributions, but the authors retain copyright ownership. In an open-core scenario, these agreements are typically meant to allow the commercial owner of the product which in some cases, is ultimately the copyright holder to all...
Freeopen-source software - the source availability model used by free and open-source software - and closed source are two approaches to the distribution of software.  Background  Under the closed-source model source code is not released to the public. Closed-source software is maintained by a team who produces their product in a compiled-executable state, which is what the market is allowed access to. Microsoft, the owner and developer of Windows and Microsoft Office, along with other major software companies, have long been proponents of this business model, although in August 2010, Microsoft interoperability general manager Jean Paoli said Microsoft loves open source and its anti-open-source position was a mistake. The FOSS model allows for able users to view and modify a product's source code, but most of such code is not in the public domain. Common advantages cited by proponents for having such a structure are expressed in terms of trust, acceptance, teamwork and quality. A non-free license is used to limit what free software movement advocates consider to be the essential freedoms. A license, whether providing open-source code or not, that does not stipulate the...
Open-source software development is the process by which open-source software, or similar software whose source code is publicly available, is developed by an open-source software project. These are software products available with its source code under an open-source license to study, change, and improve its design. Examples of some popular open-source software products are Mozilla Firefox, Google Chromium, Android, LibreOffice and the VLC media player.  History  In 1997, Eric S. Raymond wrote The Cathedral and the Bazaar. In this book, Raymond makes the distinction between two kinds of software development. The first is the conventional closed-source development. This kind of development method is, according to Raymond, like the building of a cathedral central planning, tight organization and one process from start to finish. The second is the progressive open-source development, which is more like a great babbling bazaar of differing agendas and approaches out of which a coherent and stable system could seemingly emerge only by a succession of miracles. The latter analogy points to the discussion involved in an open-source development process. Differences between the...
Source-available software is software released through a source code distribution model that includes arrangements where the source can be viewed, and in some cases modified, but without necessarily meeting the criteria to be called open-source. The licenses associated with the offerings range from allowing code to be viewed for reference to allowing code to be modified and redistributed for both commercial and non-commercial purposes. Some source-available software licenses, classified as noncompete licenses, are closed-source software licenses that have been created by modifying an open-source software license to include a restriction that prohibits using the licensed software to compete with the developer. These anti-competitive restrictions create a vendor lock-in effect by steering users toward establishing a separate agreement with the developer for commercial use of the software.  Distinction from free and open-source software  Any software is source-available in the broad sense as long as its source code is distributed along with it, even if the user has no legal rights to use, share, modify or even compile it. It is possible for a software to be both source-available software...
Software companies focusing on the development of open-source software employ a variety of business models to solve the challenge of making profits from software that is under an open-source license. Each of these business strategies rest on the premise that users of open-source technologies are willing to purchase additional software features under proprietary licenses, or purchase other services or elements of value that complement the open-source software that is core to the business. This additional value can be, but not limited to, enterprise-grade features and up-time guarantees to satisfy business or compliance requirements, performance and efficiency gains by features not yet available in the open source version, legal protection e.g., indemnification from copyright or patent infringement, or professional supporttrainingconsulting that are typical of proprietary software applications. Historically, these business models started in the late 1990s and early 2000s as dual-licensing models , and they have matured over time, giving rise to multiple variants as described in the sections below. Pure dual licensing...
The free software movement is a social movement with the goal of obtaining and guaranteeing certain freedoms for software users, namely the freedoms to run, study, modify, and share copies of software. Software which meets these requirements, The Four Essential Freedoms of Free Software, is termed free software. Although drawing on traditions and philosophies among members of the 1970s hacker culture and academia, Richard Stallman formally founded the movement in 1983 by launching the GNU Project. Stallman later established the Free Software Foundation in 1985 to support the movement.  Philosophy  The philosophy of the Free Software Movement is based on promoting collaboration between programmers and computer users. This process necessitates the rejection of proprietary software and the promotion of free software. Stallman notes that this action would not hinder the progression of technology, as he states, Wasteful duplication of system programming effort will be avoided. This effort can go instead into advancing the state of the art. Members of the Free Software Movement believe that all software users should have the freedoms listed in The Free Software Definition. Members hold...
The history of free and open-source software begins at the advent of computer software in the early half of the 20th century. In the 1950s and 1960s, computer operating software and compilers were delivered as a part of hardware purchases without separate fees. At the time, source code-the human-readable form of software-was generally distributed with the software, providing the ability to fix bugs or add new functions. Universities were early adopters of computing technology. Many of the modifications developed by universities were openly shared, in keeping with the academic principles of sharing knowledge, and organizations sprung up to facilitate sharing. As large-scale operating systems matured, fewer organizations allowed modifications to the operating software, and eventually such operating systems were closed to modification. However, utilities and other added-function applications are still shared and new organizations have been formed to promote the sharing of software.  Sharing techniques before software  The concept of free sharing of technological information existed long before computers. For example, in the early years of automobile development, one enterprise owned...
Proprietary software is software that grants its creator, publisher, or other rightsholder or rightsholder partner a legal monopoly by modern copyright and intellectual property law to exclude the recipient from freely sharing the software or modifying it, and-in some cases, as is the case with some patent-encumbered and EULA-bound software-from making use of the software on their own, thereby restricting their freedoms. Proprietary software, sometimes also referred to as Proprietary and Internal Source Software PISS, an informal and derogatory antiversion of the FOSS acronym for Free and Open Source Software, is a subset of non-free software, a term defined in contrast to free and open-source software non-commercial licenses such as CC BY-NC are not deemed proprietary, but are non-free. Proprietary software may either be closed-source software or source-available software. Some open-source software can be described as proprietary, as copyright is retained by its authors and may be concentrated through Contributor License Agreement, enabling relicensing under more restrictive terms.  Origin  Until the late 1960s, computers-especially large and expensive mainframe computers, machines...
The Open Source Definition is a policy document published by the Open Source Initiative in 1998. Derived from the Debian Free Software Guidelines written by Bruce Perens, the OSD is the predominant standard for open-source software. The definition has ten criteria, such as requiring freely accessed source code and granting the open-source rights to everyone who receives a copy of the program. Covering both copyleft and permissive licenses, it is effectively identical to the definition of free software, but motivated by more pragmatic and business-friendly considerations. The Open Source Initiative's board votes on proposals of licenses to certify that they are compliant with the definition, and maintains a list of compliant licenses on its website. The definition has been adapted into the Open Knowledge Foundation's Open Definition for open knowledge and into open hardware definitions.  History  There have been several attempts to define open source and free software. Amongst the earliest was Free Software Foundation's Free Software Definition, which then defined as the Three Freedoms of Free Software . Published versions of FSF's Free Software...
This is a list of notable open-source video games. Open-source video games are assembled from and are themselves open-source software, including public domain games with public domain source code. This list also includes games in which the engine is open-source but other data is under a more restrictive license.  Open engine and free data  The games in this table are developed under one or more free and open-source software license with free content which allows reuse, modification and commercial redistribution of the whole game. Licenses can be public domain, GPL, BSD, Creative Commons, zlib, MIT, Artistic or other see the comparison of Free and open-source software and the Comparison of free and open-source software licenses.  Open-source games with non-free data  Only the game engines in this table are developed under an open-source license, which means that the reuse and modification of only the code is permitted. As some of the games' content created by the developers is proprietary or restricted in use, the whole games are non-free and restricted in reuse depending on the...
The Economic Society of Australia is the peak body for Australian economists. It was established in 1925 and has branches in all states and the ACT. The current president is Matthew Butlin from Victoria The ESA gives the Young Economist Award every two years to recognise the contributions of an economist under the age of 40. Previous winners have included the Hon Dr Andrew Leigh, Professor Paul Frijters, and Professor Joshua Ganns. The ESA also hosts an eminent speaker series, which has included talks from Deirdre McCloskey, Professor Jagdish Bhagwati, Joseph Stiglitz, Mary Morgan among many others. It produces two major publications The Economic Record and Economic Papers.  References 
More Than Kawaii is the first extended play by the Japanese girl group onefive. It was released on March 26, 2025, by the record label Avex Trax.  Background and development  The members of onefive would sometimes have conversations among themselves about how the word kawaii, which means cute in Japanese, is prevalently used in Japanese society without much thought. They would often receive the compliment and wonder why Japanese people tend to only say kawaii when that singular expression cannot express the full extent of their charm as people. They questioned if people really meant it from their hearts when they used that word, and if they had forgotten the original excitement that the expression conveyed. Through such conversations, the members of onefive came up with the theme for their first EP, which, as expressed in its title, is that they are more than kawaii. The development of the EP began through meetings between the four members of onefive and their staff about the meaning of the phrase more than kawaii. The members were deeply involved in the production of the songs from scratch, which made them feel that More Than Kawaii particularly...
Robert Bobby Jones was an American two-time National Champion jockey in Thoroughbred horse racing. From San Ysidro, California, Bobby Jones was the son of Alfred L. Jones, who was involved in horse racing and who raised Thoroughbreds. Bobby Jones rode professionally at Agua Caliente Racetrack in Tijuana, Mexico but rose to prominence riding at racetracks in Chicago. In 1931 he was a contract jockey for the stable of Mrs. Emil Denemark, and others, and was the leading jockey at Arlington Park. The August 8, 1932, issue of the Chicago Daily Tribune wrote that Jones was considered one of the greatest jockeys ever to come out of the west. The December 26, 1932, issue of the Tribune reported that he had signed a contract with racing stable owner Willis Sharpe Kilmer that could earn him 50,000 in 1933. While he met with little success riding for the Kilmer stable, Jones had also signed to ride for the Whitney family's famous Greentree Stable in 1933. That year, he led all jockeys in the United States in purse money won, finishing ahead of greats such as Silvio Coucci, Charlie Kurtsinger, Raymond Workman, Wayne Wright, and Mack Garner...
Tiden is a quarterly theoretical political journal published in Stockholm, Sweden, since 1908. It is organ of the Social Democratic Party. Its original subtitle was Tidskrift fr socialistisk kritik och politik Swedish: Journal of Socialist Criticism and Politics which is later changed to Socialdemokratisk id- och debattidskrift Swedish: Magazine of the Social Democratic Views and Debate.  History and profile  Tiden was established by the Swedish social democrat politician Hjalmar Branting in 1908. It is an official publication of the Social Democratic Party which was started to provide a platform for political and cultural discussions among the party members. Tiden was a monthly publication from 1908 to 1917. In the period between 1918 and 1929 it came out eight times per year. Then it was published ten times per year from 1930 to 1992. From 1999 its frequency was switched to bimonthly. It is published by Tankesmedjan Tiden, a leftist think tank founded in 2006, on a quarterly basis. The magazine is headquartered in Stockholm.  Editors and contributors  Many leading politicians from the Social Democratic Party edited Tiden, including its founder Hjalmar...
The Church of St. Joseph of the Parish of St. Joseph-St. Thomas, is a Roman Catholic parish church in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and the oldest extant Roman Catholic church on Staten Island. The nearby cemetery is the second-oldest Roman Catholic cemetery on the island. The church is located on Poplar Avenue in Rossville, Staten Island, New York City, New York.  Parish history  St. Joseph's was established in 1848 as a mission of St. Peter's Church by that church's pastor, the Rev. Mark Murphy. Fr. Murphy celebrated the first Mass on July 2, 1848 for 58 Catholics in a house on Rossville Avenue. In 1851 a small chapel dedicated to St. Joseph was completed on Poplar Avenue. The mission was upgraded to parish status in 1855 and thereby the chapel upgraded to church status with Rev. Francis DeCaro, O.F.M., being appointed as first pastor. With its 1855 establishment, St. Joseph's is the third oldest of Staten Island's 36 parishes after St. Peter's and St. Mary's. During the tenure of Father John Barry, a mission, St. Patrick's, was established at Richmond around 1860. St. Mary of the Assumption in Graniteville, originally established in 1853 as a mission of St. Peter...
Safir is a Danish female singer, musician, composer, writer and producer. Safir is primarily known as a performing artist and from her debut album, Safirsongs. For a period of time she was also the drummer of Danish hip hop phenomenon White Chocolate. Before Safir started performing as a musician, she worked as a DJ at the radio stations Radio Olga and Radio Nstved. Here she was hosting several popular weekly programs. Safir started playing drums at the age of 15 and began shortly after singing professionally in several constellations. This included e.g. her jazz quartet, big band, pop-bands etc. In 2002 Safir took a PhD from the Rhythmic Conservatory in Copenhagen, Denmark, in voice. Safir has at times taught singing and music at different schools, including at the prestigious Danish boarding school Herlufsholm. In 2008 Safir released the debut album Safirsongs on indie label Nefertiti Records in cooperation with Scandinavian distributor Gateway Music. Safir is now based in Los Angeles and performs, writes and records with different collaborators.  Discography  Safir: Safirsongs. Nefertiti Records, 2008.  External links  Official website
Indarbela dea is a moth in the family Cossidae first described by Charles Swinhoe in 1890. It is found in Myanmar.  References  Pitkin, Brian  Jenkins, Paul . Indarbela Fletcher, 1922. Butterflies and Moths of the World. Natural History Museum, London. Retrieved April 20, 2020.
The captain general of the Church was the de facto commander-in-chief of the Papal States' armed forces generally, the Papal Army and the Papal Navy from the Middle Ages into the early modern period. The post was usually conferred on an Italian or other noble with a professional military reputation or a relative of the pope. The parallel office of gonfalonier was more a formal and ceremonial honor than the responsibility of a tactical military leader. The office was at times made subordinate to temporary offices. For example, Pope Callixtus III appointed Cardinal Rodrigo Borgia as the chief and general commissary of the Papal Army. A number of such offices under many titles were used as ministers of war by popes, the captain general operated as a field commander under these offices. Pope Innocent II removed both ranks and replaced them with the position of Flag-bearer of the Holy Roman Church , which later became hereditary in the Naro Patrizi. It was traditional for the captain general to carry a baton of command blessed by the pope.  List of captains general  ...
David Botwinik Yiddish:   12 December 1920 - 9 February 2022 was a Lithuanian-born Canadian composer of Yiddish music and music teacher. Born in Vilna, Central Lithuania, he began his studies at the Yiddish music conservatory in Vilna at around age 13. Shortly before, he studied at the Conservatory of Music Santa Cecilia, Rome. In 1956, he emigrated to Montreal, Canada where he worked as a music teacher and as a choir director of Jewish Peretz School and United Talmud Torahs. For a short time, he published the collection of songs Der nayer dor and the satirical newspaper Der shmayser . In 2010, his book From Holocaust To Life Yiddish:    , Fun khurbn tsum lebn was published by the League for Yiddish . This book contains 56 original compositions, including Yiddish Holocaust songs, children's songs and choral compositions, with lyrics by various poets and some by Botwinik himself. In 2017, a CD containing 15 songs was published under the title From Holocaust to Life, Yiddish Art Songs. The CD features internationally acclaimed singers Lisa Willson, John Packard, Ian DeNolfo and Louis Danto. His son, Alexander...
Food and Country is a 2023 American documentary film directed by Laura Gabbert, which explores how the COVID pandemic impacted American small farmers and independent restaurants. The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2023, and was released in the United States on October 2, 2024.  Release  The film first premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2023, and later at the Thessaloniki Documentary Festival on March 5, 2023, South by Southwest on March 13, 2023, the Cleveland Film Festival on March 31, 2023, the Minneapolis St. Paul International Film Festival on April 26, 2023, the Hot Docs International Film Festival on April 28, 2023, the Seattle International Film Festival in May 2023, the Nantucket Film Festival on June 22, 2023, and the Philadelphia Film Festival on October 25, 2023. On August 21, 2024, Greenwich Entertainment acquired the distribution rights to the film, which was released on October 2, 2024.  Reception   Box office  In the United States, the film made 4,037 from two theaters in its opening weekend.  Critical response  On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 67 of 18 critics' reviews are positive, with...
Rojin Polat is an Australian-born Turkish footballer, who plays as a midfielder for Sydney Uni SFC in the NSW League Two, and the Turkey women's national team. She was a member of the Turkey women's U-19 team. She also plays futsal for SD Raiders Futsal.  Club career   SD Raiders FC  Polat started her football career at SD Raiders FC in Moorebank, New South Wales. In 2018, she played 23 matches and scored five goals in the U14 team. In 2020, she appeared with the U17 team in 21 games scoring one goal in three different competitions in total. The next year, she scored two goals in twelve matches in the National Premier Leagues 2 NSW Women's. That year, she was named member of the 2021 All Schools Merit Girls Team in New South Wales. In 2022, she played in the Open Girls NSW Combined Independent Schools team at the NSW All Schools Football Championships.  Sydney Uni SFC  In the 2023 season, Polat joined Sydney Uni SFC in the National Premier Leagues NSW Women's. That season, she scored two goals in 17 league matches.  Futsal  Polat also plays futsal as a member of the team SD Raiders Futsal in the Futsal Premier League 2 Open Women's.  International... 
Christopher Fulwood , was an English royalist. Fulwood was probably born in London about 1590, was the eldest son of Sir George Fulwood, lord of the manor of Middleton-by-Youlgrave, Derbyshire. His father, who died in 1624, was admitted a member of Gray's Inn in 1589, and appears to have passed the greater part of his life in the practice of the law in London, as in 1608 he is styled of Fulwood Street, Holborn. In 1605 Christopher was also entered at Gray's Inn, of which society he was admitted ancient 28 May 1622, appointed autumn reader in 1628, and treasurer 3 November 1637. When disengaged from his professional duties he resided at Middleton. His strict impartiality as a magistrate is commemorated by the 'apostle of the Peak,' William Bagshaw. In 1640, at the Bakewell sessions, the curate of Taddington was charged with puritanism. Fulwood, who was chairman, 'though known to be a zealot in the cause of the then king and conformity, released him, and gave his accusers a sharp reprimand'.  Civil War and death  Fulwood's influence in the district was of great value to the royalist cause. He was specially employed to raise the Derbyshire miners as a life-guard for his...
Olen Andre Zellweger is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is a defenceman for the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League . He was drafted in the second round, 34th overall, by the Anaheim Ducks in the 2021 NHL entry draft.  Early life  Although Zellweger was born in Calgary, he was raised in Bonnyville, Alberta. He won an Atom AA championship on the Bonnyville Pontiacs.  Playing career  Zellweger was selected by the Everett Silvertips of the Western Hockey League in the second round of the 2018 prospect draft. He made his debut with the Silvertips at the age of 16 during the 2019-20 season. He played in 148 games for Everett registering 28 goals and 103 assists. He won the Bill Hunter Memorial Trophy as WHL defenceman of the year in 2021-22, marking the first time a Silvertips player won that trophy.  Anaheim Ducks  Zellweger was drafted by the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League in the second round, 34th overall, of the 2021 NHL entry draft. Zellweger signed a three-year entry-level contract with the Ducks on August 13, 2021. Later that season he would make his professional...
Camp Pathfinder is a boys' Summer camp in Algonquin Provincial Park, Ontario, Canada. The camp is best known for its canoe tripping program. Pathfinder follows a tradition of using wood and canvas canoes. Several other camps in Algonquin and elsewhere follow a similar tradition of tripping with, building and restoring canvas canoes. Pathfinder's canoes are painted a distinctive bright red. The current owners are Will Hopkins -- himself once a Pathfinder camper -- and his wife Diane. Will serves as Camp Director. The two were litigants in an episode of the Judge John Hodgman podcast where they argued over a communal outhouse used at the camp.  History  Camp Pathfinder was founded in 1914 by William Bennett and Franklin Gray. In 1922, the camp was sold to Herman J. Chief Norton, who became one of Pathfinder's most influential owners. Pathfinder was almost shut down or sold to the Ontario Provincial Government when the government told Norton the lease for the camp would not be renewed. The government later renewed the lease and the camp remained in operation. Since then, owners or co-owners have included Frank...
Red Mountain High School is a public high school in Mesa, Arizona.  History  Red Mountain first opened its doors in 1988 as the 4th high school built by Mesa Unified School District. It currently has student capacity of approximately 3,300 students as of the 2020-21 school year.  Academics  Red Mountain's curriculum is aligned with the standards set by the Arizona Department of Education required for all students grades 9-12 graduating from a publicly funded high school. Arizona requires that all high school students take 6 credit bearing courses during their freshmen through junior years, and provides the option for students on track for graduation the ability to reduce their course load to 4 credit bearing courses. However, Mesa Public Schools requires all students must complete 24 credits whereas the public university system controlled by the Arizona Board of Regents requires only 16 credits in the following areas:  Demographics  During the 2023-2024 school year, the demographic break of the 3,469 students enrolled was: Male - 50.7 Female - 49.3 American IndianAlaska Native - 1.3 Asian - 1.6 Black - 3.4 Hispanic - 28.6 Native HawaiianPacific Islander - 0...
The School of Business, Technology, Marketing and Finance is a four-year public high school in Paterson in Passaic County, New Jersey, United States, operated as part of the Paterson Public Schools. It is one of a number of academy programs serving students in ninth through twelfth grades based at the John F. Kennedy High School campus. As of the 2020-21 school year, the school had an enrollment of 627 students and 47.0 classroom teachers , for a student-teacher ratio of 13.3:1. There were 342 students eligible for free lunch and none eligible for reduced-cost lunch.  Awards, recognition and rankings  The school was the 332nd-ranked public high school in New Jersey out of 339 schools statewide in New Jersey Monthly magazine's September 2014 cover story on the state's Top Public High Schools, using a new ranking methodology.  References   External links  School website Paterson Public Schools School Performance Report for School of Business, Technology, Marketing and Finance, New Jersey Department of Education School Data for the Paterson Public Schools, National Center for Education Statistics
The Greatest Hits Collection is a compilation album released by Bananarama which features their single releases and greatest hits. It was issued by London Records in 1988, eight months after the departure of group member Siobhan Fahey. The track listing differed between versions released in the United States and Canada, as well as those released throughout Europe and other territories.  Composition  Except where otherwise noted, all songs are represented on the album in their single or 7 mix variants. The version of I Want You Back on this collection is the newer version of the song with vocals re-recorded by Sara Dallin and Keren Woodward with new member Jacquie O'Sullivan, following the departure of Fahey. One new song, Love, Truth and Honesty, was released as a single which featured O'Sullivan's first credits as a song-writing contributor, and peaked inside the UK top 30. The other new track on the compilation was a re-recorded version of the Supremes track Nathan Jones. Like I Want You Back, this song was originally included on the Wow! album released before Fahey's departure. The new line-up re-recorded the song with new vocal and...
Patagonian Afrikaans is a form of Afrikaans brought to Argentina by Boer immigrants following the Second Boer War . Today, there are still Afrikaans-speaking communities with a well established cultural identity.  History  Afrikaans was brought to Patagonia in 1902 by Boers following their defeat in the Second Boer War. Boer immigration ended by 1907 with approximately 600-650 Afrikaners settling in Comodoro Rivadavia. An Argentine delegation visited South Africa around the turn of the century and published advertisements in newspapers in Bloemfontein, Philipstown, and Burgersdorp to encourage Afrikaner immigration to Chubut. In 1938, about half of the community was repatriated to South Africa. The Boers were amongst the first settlers of Comodoro Rivadavia, but many trekked further inland to Sarmiento, as it had better access to arable land and fresh water. Many of these colonists' descendants still speak Afrikaans and continue to attend the Dutch Reformed Church. An early arrival described the territory as painfully discouraging: bare ridges, with huge limestone rocks scattered around, threatening to tumble down. Yes, the coast was so unattractive that one might think...
Photography is the art, application, and practice of creating images by recording light, either electronically by means of an image sensor, or chemically by means of a light-sensitive material such as photographic film. It is employed in many fields of science, manufacturing , and business, as well as its more direct uses for art, film and video production, recreational purposes, hobby, and mass communication. A person who operates a camera to capture or take photographs is called a photographer, while the captured image, also known as a photograph, is the result produced by the camera. Typically, a lens is used to focus the light reflected or emitted from objects into a real image on the light-sensitive surface inside a camera during a timed exposure. With an electronic image sensor, this produces an electrical charge at each pixel, which is electronically processed and stored in a digital image file for subsequent display or processing. The result with photographic emulsion is an invisible latent image, which is later chemically developed into a visible image, either negative or positive, depending on the purpose of the photographic material and the method...
This timeline of Russian innovation encompasses key events in the history of technology in Russia. The entries in this timeline fall into the following categories: indigenous invention, like airliners, AC transformers, radio receivers, television, MRLs , artificial satellites, ICBMs uniquely Russian products, objects and events, like Saint Basil's Cathedral, Matryoshka dolls, Russian vodka products and objects with superlative characteristics, like the Tsar Bomba, the AK-47, and the Typhoon-class submarine scientific and medical discoveries, like the periodic law, vitamins and stem cells This timeline includes scientific and medical discoveries, products and technologies introduced by various peoples of Russia and its predecessor states, regardless of ethnicity, and also lists inventions by naturalized immigrant citizens. Certain innovations achieved internationally may also appear in this timeline in cases where the Russian side played a major role in such projects.  Kievan Rus'   10th century  Kokoshnik The kokoshnik is a traditional Russian head-dress for women. It is patterned to match the style of the sarafan and can be pointed or round. It is tied at the back of the...
To reinvent the wheel is to attempt to duplicate-most likely with inferior results-a basic method that has already previously been created or optimized by others. The inspiration for this idiomatic metaphor is that the wheel is an ancient archetype of human ingenuity one so profound that it continues to underlie much of modern technology. As it has already been invented and is not considered to have any inherent flaws, an attempt to reinvent it would add no value to it and be a waste of time, diverting the investigator's resources from possibly more worthy goals.  Usage  The phrase is sometimes used without derision when a person's activities might be perceived as merely reinventing the wheel when they actually possess additional value. For example, reinventing the wheel is an important tool in the instruction of complex ideas. Rather than providing students simply with a list of known facts and techniques and expecting them to incorporate these ideas perfectly and rapidly, the instructor instead will build up the material anew, leaving the student to work out those key steps which embody the reasoning characteristic of the field. Reinventing the wheel may be an ironic...
Famous first facts: a record of first happenings, discoveries, and inventions in American history is a book listing First Happenings, Discoveries and Inventions in the United States. The book's seventh edition , published in March 2015 - includes more than 8,000 entries on 1,400 pages. The book was originally published by H. W. Wilson Company in 1933, weighing in at 757 pages and selling for 3.50. The book was created by Joseph Nathan Kane, a freelance journalist who had assembled 3,000 firsts into a text that had been rejected by 11 other publishers before it was accepted by its current publisher. The book became a library reference standard. The first edition led to a 1938-39 radio show hosted by Kane on the Mutual Broadcasting System. The second edition of the book was published in 1950, the third in 1964, the fourth in 1981 and the fifth in 1997. The sixth edition was published in 2006, and the seventh edition was published in 2015. A version focused on world history was published in 2000 titled Famous first facts, international edition: a record of first happenings, discoveries, and inventions in world history.  See... 
The SPARK Museum of Electrical Invention formerly the American Museum of Radio and Electricity is an interactive museum located in Bellingham, Washington, United States, which offers educational experiences for audiences of all ages through galleries and public programs that illustrate the development and use of electricity, radio and the related inventions that changed the course of human history. The museum features a collection of artifacts showcasing four centuries of human innovation from 1580 into the 1950s.  Museum history  The museum began in 1985 as an informal collection of radio sets, spare parts, schematics, recordings, and vintage magazines and manuals owned by a Bellingham resident, Jonathan Winter Winter's collection continued to grow, and by 1998, the Bellingham Antique Radio Museum was officially established, with the more than 800 radio sets from Winter's collection forming the core of the museum's collection. The museum took on the name American Museum of Radio and Electricity in 2001 when it moved into its 23,000-square-foot facility and John Jenkins, a former sales and marketing executive at Microsoft, retired and became co-curator of the museum...
Jack St. Clair Kilby was an American electrical engineer who took part, along with Robert Noyce of Fairchild Semiconductor, in the realization of the first integrated circuit while working at Texas Instruments in 1958. For this invention, Kilby shared the 2000 Nobel Prize in Physics. Kilby was also a co-inventor of the handheld calculator and the thermal printer, for which he had the patents. He also had patents for seven other inventions.  Early life and education  Jack St. Clair Kilby was born on November 8, 1923, in Jefferson City, Missouri. He was raised in Great Bend, Kansas, where his father ran a small electric company that served customers in rural western Kansas. While in high school, a huge ice storm knocked down most of the poles that carried the telephone and electric power lines. His father's company had to use amateur radio operators for communication in the areas where customers had lost their power and phone service. This event sparked his interest in electronics. After serving in the U.S. Army as an electronics technician during World War II, Kilby began studying electrical engineering at the University of Illinois, graduating...
Playground Psychotics is a two-CD live album by Frank Zappa and the Mothers of Invention. It was originally released in 1992 through his mail order label, Barking Pumpkin, and was re-released in 1995 through Rykodisc. The album features recordings of Zappa and his band, the Mothers of Invention, around the time of the film 200 Motels. The live material on Playground Psychotics is interspersed with excerpts from taped conversations among band members whilst on tour, and the release includes three conceptual sections: A Typical Day on the Road, Part 1, a collage of dialogue which opens the first disc A Typical Day on the Road, Part 2, which opens the second disc and The True Story of 200 Motels, which appears at the end of disc two. The album also includes a live session with John Lennon and Yoko Ono, an alternate mix of which appears on Lennon and Ono's Some Time in New York City .  Track listing  All words  music are written by Frank Zappa, except where noted.  Disc one  An alternate mix of tracks 22 through 26, at times with different titles, appears on the John Lennon and Yoko Ono album Sometime in New York City.  Disc two   Personnel   Musicians  Heard...
A software patent is a patent on a piece of software, such as a computer program, library, user interface, or algorithm. The validity of these patents can be difficult to evaluate, as software is often at once a product of engineering, something typically eligible for patents, and an abstract concept, which is typically not. This gray area, along with the difficulty of patent evaluation for intangible, technical works such as libraries and algorithms, makes software patents a frequent subject of controversy and litigation. Different jurisdictions have radically different policies concerning software patents, including a blanket ban, no restrictions, or attempts to distinguish between purely mathematical constructs and embodiments of these constructs. For example, an algorithm itself may be judged unpatentable, but its use in software judged patentable.  Background  A patent is a set of exclusionary rights granted by a state to a patent holder for a limited period of time, usually 20 years. These rights are granted to patent applicants in exchange for their disclosure of the inventions. Once a patent is granted in a given country, no person may make, use, sell or importexport...
Literacy is traditionally the ability to read and write. Since the mid-twentieth century, the term is also used more broadly to encompass identifying, understanding, interpreting, creating, communicating, and using written information in ways that enable individuals to participate effectively in society and achieve goals. The spread of literacy has been closely linked to the invention and spread of writing systems, the expansion of education, and technological change. Literacy rates have increased substantially worldwide since the mid-twentieth century, although significant disparities remain between countries, regions, and demographic groups, particularly with respect to gender and access to education. In 2022, the World Economic Forum estimated the global literacy rate at 87, which was a substantial increase from 200 years ago, where it was at 12 in 1820. Because literacy is fundamental to education, economic participation, and civic life, it has been the subject of extensive interdisciplinary research, and its definition and measurement remain the subject of scholarly and policy debate. Related concepts include functional literacy and multiliteracies, while specialized forms include...
A French dip sandwich, also known as a beef dip, is a hot sandwich consisting of thinly sliced roast beef on a French roll or baguette. A popular variation is to top with Swiss cheese, onions, and a dipping container of beef broth produced from the cooking process . Beef stock, a light beef gravy, or beef consomm is sometimes substituted. The sandwich is most commonly served with a cup on the side, into which the sandwich is dipped as it is eaten, although this is not how the sandwich was served when it was originally developed. The sandwich is an American invention, with the name seeming to refer to the style of bread.  History  Two Los Angeles restaurants have claimed to have created the French dip sandwich: Cole's Pacific Electric Buffet and Philippe the Original. Philippe's website describes the dish as a specialty of the house, and the words Home of the Original French Dip Sandwich are present in the restaurant's logo. At Phillippe's the sandwich is served double dipped, where the cut faces of the roll are dipped in the hot beef juices before the sandwich is assembled a single dipped version in which only...
Karl Rove: Courage and Consequence is a grassroots funded compilation of rock songs released on March 3, 2010 in anticipation of Karl Rove's similarly titled memoir. The subtitle of the record is The Unabridged Audio. It was conceived as an anticipatory sonic recollection of the gross misdeeds attributable to Rove over the past decade. It is both a compilation album and digital download package, as well as a direct lampoon of Courage and Consequence: My Life As a Conservative in the Fight written by Karl Rove. Project: Courage and Consequence was conceived of, in tandem with the compilation LP to Google bomb the memoir of the similar title and mess with the search results  Track listing  The Heavenly States - A Man For Our Times Rival Dickens - Forget The Naughts Have Special Power - A Rove By Any Other Name Assistant Cobra - The Art Of Distraction Lambs of Abortion - New American Century We're Gonna Fight The Eskimos Next Members of Mount Vicious, Vitamin Party and Bwuh - Don't Praise The Machine Cartographer - The Biggest Asshole In The World Death Dream - Karl Rove, Let's Get Dirty Generalissimo - Swarm Cold Lake - Courage and Consequence Hurry...
200 Motels is a 1971 surrealist musical film written and directed by Frank Zappa and Tony Palmer, and featuring music by Zappa. An international co-production of United States and the United Kingdom, the film stars the Mothers of Invention, Theodore Bikel, Keith Moon and Ringo Starr. A soundtrack album was released in the same year, with a slightly different selection of music.  Plot  The film attempts to portray the craziness of life on the road as a rock musician, and as such consists of a series of unconnected nonsense vignettes interspersed with concert footage of the Mothers of Invention. Ostensibly, while on tour The Mothers of Invention go crazy in the small fictional town of Centerville a real nice place to raise your kids up, wander around, and get beaten up in Redneck Eats, a cowboy bar. In an animated interlude passed off as a dental hygiene movie, bassist Jeff, tired of playing what he refers to as Zappa's comedy music, is persuaded by his bad conscience to quit the group, as did his real-life counterpart Jeff Simmons. Simmons was replaced by Martin Lickert for the film. Almost every scene is drenched with video special effects...
One Size Fits All is the fourteenth and final studio album by the Mothers of Invention, and the twentieth overall album by Frank Zappa, released in June 1975. The album reached 26 on the Billboard Top LPs  Tape chart in the United States in August 1975. The album features the summerfall 1974 lineup of the Mothers of Invention, with keyboardistvocalist George Duke, drummer Chester Thompson, percussionist Ruth Underwood, bass guitarist Tom Fowler and saxophonistvocalist Napoleon Murphy Brock. Can't Afford No Shoes features bassist James Youmans, who temporarily joined when Fowler broke his hand while on tour an incident referenced by Zappa in the credits.  Music  The album features one of Zappa's most complex tracks, Inca Roads. The basic tracks of this piece originated from a TV recording at the KCET studios in Los Angeles on August 27, 1974, while the guitar solo came from a concert in Helsinki on September 22 or 23, 1974. Florentine Pogen's basic tracks were also from the KCET recording, which would later be a source of Zappa's video release The Dub Room Special, while in 1988 Zappa released You Can't Do That on Stage Anymore, Vol. 2 from the Helsinki concerts, including...
Spontaneous Inventions is a 1986 live album by American vocalist Bobby McFerrin, released by Blue Note Records. The album reached number 103 on the Billboard 200, number 62 on Billboard's RB Albums chart, number 6 on the Top Jazz Albums chart, and number 2 on the Top Contemporary Jazz Albums chart. The album features special guests, amongst them Robin Williams and Herbie Hancock . McFerrin later performed a modified version of the song Thinkin' About Your Body in a series of UK Cadbury's chocolate adverts in 19891990.  Track listing   Personnel  Cheryl Bentyne - Vocal Arrangement, Vocals Bruce Botnick, Judy Clapp, Leslie Ann Jones, Elliot Scheiner - Engineer Linda Goldstein, Tim Hauser - Producer Herbie Hancock - Piano Tim Hauser, Jon Hendricks, Janis Siegel, Robin Williams - Vocals Mary Mack - Photography The Manhattan Transfer - Group, Vocals Bobby McFerrin - Bass, Percussion, Producer, Vocal Arrangement, Vocals Paula Scher - Design Rhonda Schoen - Digital Editing Wayne Shorter - Sax Jack Skinner - Mastering  References 
Hal Oscar Anger was an American electrical engineer and biophysicist at Donner Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, known for his invention of the gamma camera. In all, Anger held 15 patents, many of them for work at the Ernest O. Lawrence Radiation Laboratory. Anger received several awards in recognition of his inventions and their contributions to the field of nuclear medicine. Anger died in Berkeley, California.  Career  In 1957, he invented the scintillation camera, known also as the gamma camera or Anger camera. Anger also developed the well counter, widely used in laboratory tests to measure radioactivity in samples. Anger also developed a multi-plane tomographic radiation scanner using the Anger camera and a focussed radiation collimator. The first useful scintillation camera was developed by Anger at an AEC-funded laboratory at the University of California at Berkeley, California. Consequently, the patent rights on the invention were owned by the U.S. Government. However, Anger's supervisors at the lab were well connected with the head of the AEC, Glenn Seaborg, and prevailed on the AEC to release the patent rights to Anger personally...
Ski-Doo is a brand name of snowmobile manufactured by Bombardier Recreational Products originally Bombardier Inc. before the spin-off. The Ski-Doo personal snowmobile brand is so iconic, especially in Canada, that it was listed in 17th place on the CBC's The Greatest Canadian Invention list in 2007. Ski-Doo also has its own range of snowmobile suits.  History  The first ever Ski-Doo was launched in 1959 as a new invention created by Joseph-Armand Bombardier. The original name was Ski-Dog, but a typographical error in a Bombardier brochure changed the name Ski-Dog to Ski-Doo. Upon discovery of the typo, Bombardier considered that typo a fortuitous development since he felt it not only sounded appealing, but it was distinctive and simple to trademark for his vehicle. The first Ski-Doos found customers with missionaries, trappers, prospectors, land surveyors and others who need to travel in snowy, remote areas. The largest success for the snowmobile came from sport enthusiasts, a market that opened the door to massive production of snowmobiles. This popularity led to skidoo , with the derived verb skidooing , becoming the traditional generic term...
Franois Frzeau de La Frzelire designed a new system of artillery in the late 1600s where the cannons were of considerably lighter weight than contemporary guns. Frzelire's Artillerie de Nouvelle Invention was ahead of its time but suffered from unresolved recoil and other problems. His effort to introduce light field artillery into the French Royal Army was strenuously opposed by conservative artillery officers. The system was suppressed in 1720 and eventually replaced by the Vallire system of heavier cannons.  Family  Franois Frzeau de La Frzelire was born into the noble Frzeau de La Frzelire family. From 1651, the family's residence was the chateau at Monts-sur-Guesnes. The family produced many soldiers during the wars of the 16th century and 17th century. Many of these soldiers were especially proficient in the handling of artillery, including Franois Frzeau de La Frzelire who was promoted to Lieutenant General. Frzelire's son Charles-Madeleine Frzeau de la Frzelire became the colonel of the Frzelire Dragoon Regiment and resigned from the army in 1679. He...
Fumiko Minami was a Japanese housewife who contributed to the invention of the electric rice cooker.  Life  Fumiko was born in 191314 into a family of a 'high-ranked warrior class', and moved to Tokyo with her father, who had lost the family's money. While she was working in a restaurant, she met Yoshitada Minami , the owner of a small family factory which sold water boilers to Toshiba. They married and had six children.  Rice cooker  In the 1950s, Toshiba began a project to improve on the electric rice cooker. Models had been available since the 1920s, but they had sold poorly as they still needed the heat to be turned off manually, and therefore monitored to prevent the rice from burning. While selling electric washing machines across Japan, Toshiba engineer Shogo Yamada learned that women found cooking rice three times a day, continuously adjusting the heat to achieve fluffy rice, even more time consuming then laundry. Yoshitada Minami was asked by Yamada to try to develop a better rice cooker, and accepted the task because his water boiler factory was struggling and on the brink of bankruptcy. Fumiko carried out market research into the rice cookers...
Sotirios Sam Panopoulos Greek:   20 August 1934 - 8 June 2017 was a Greek-born Canadian cook and businessman, credited as the inventor of Hawaiian pizza.  Early life  Sotirios Panopoulos was born in Vourvoura, Greece, on 20 August 1934. He emigrated to Canada in 1954, aged 20, arriving in Halifax, Nova Scotia.  Career  Panopoulos settled in Sudbury, and then Elliot Lake, Ontario, where he found work in the mines. After sampling pizza in Naples, Panopoulos first tried pizza in North America when he visited Windsor, Ontario. With his brothers Elias and Nikitas, Panopoulos owned the Satellite Restaurant in Chatham, Ontario. They offered typical American items such as burgers and fries and American Chinese dishes, some of which mix sweet and savoury flavours. In the early 1960s Panopoulos started offering pizzas, recently popular in the US. In 1962, he had the idea to add canned pineapple to pizza. This innovation became popular with his customers, yet over time has also earned the disdain of pizza puritans. In February 2017, when Iceland's President Guni Th. Jhannesson said that pineapple should be banned from pizza, Canadian Prime...
A Gigli saw is a flexible wire saw used by surgeons for bone cutting. A Gigli saw is used mainly for amputation, where the bones have to be smoothly cut at the level of amputation. In addition, it was once commonly used to perform craniotomies for brain surgery, before the invention of powered skull saws. It is also used in veterinary medicine for cutting antler, horn, and tusks, as well as bone. The saw was invented by Leonardo Gigli, an Italian obstetrician, to simplify the performance of a lateral pubiotomy in obstructed labour. It is featured in the 2023 American horror film Saw  and in Dexter: Resurrection by Ronald Schmidt, the Dark Passenger killer.  See also  Instruments used in general surgery  References 
Joseph-Armand Bombardier French:  April 16, 1907 - February 18, 1964 was a Canadian inventor and businessman who was the founder of Bombardier. His most famous invention was a snowmobile.  Biography  Joseph-Armand Bombardier was born in Valcourt on 16 April 1907, and became the oldest of eight siblings. He dabbled in mechanics from an early age, building various small-scale devices. At age 15, he built his first snow vehicle. Bombardier attended a seminary for several years before becoming an apprentice at a mechanics shop at age 17. He then moved to Montreal and studying electrical and mechanical engineering. After a couple of years, his father built him a workshop in Valcourt. He acquired experience by reading, taking notes and repairing what he found until he opened his own garage at age 19, where he would repair cars and sell gasoline in the summertime. Meanwhile, Bombardier worked on developing a vehicle able to travel on snow. Bombardier married Yvonne Labrecque in 1929, and the couple had six children. Unfortunately, their two-year-old son died in January 1934 because they could not adequately commute to the hospital during a blizzard. This strengthened...
Japanese patent law is based on the first-to-file principle and is mainly given force by the Patent Act of Japan. Article 2 defines an invention as the highly advanced creation of technical ideas utilizing the law of nature.  English translation  The definitive version of Japanese law is the text in the Japanese language. An official English-language translation of the law does not exist, but the Ministry of Justice Japan has the website Japanese Law Translation, where one can search for Japanese laws and their unofficial English translation. Intellectual property laws such as Patent Act, Copyright Act, Trademark Act, Design Act and Unfair Competition Prevention Act are included there. In addition, the Industrial Property Digital Library offers public access to IP Gazettes of the Japan Patent Office free of charge through the Internet. Reliable information on Japanese IP law in English is also provided by the websites of Intellectual Property High Court, Japan Patent Office, Transparency of Japanese Law Project, European Patent Office, and Institute of Intellectual Property of Japan. For more details, see External links at the bottom...
Our Inventions is the fourth studio album by German electronic music band Lali Puna. It was released on 1 April 2010 by Morr Music.  Track listing   Personnel  Credits are adapted from the album's liner notes. Lali Puna Valerie Trebeljahr Markus Acher Christoph Brandner Christian Hei Additional musicians Karl Ivar Refseth - percussion, vibraphone Yukihiro Takahashi - performance on Out There Production Tomohiko Gondo - additional production on Out There Christian Hei - recording Sean Magee - mastering Yukihiro Takahashi - additional production on Out There Oliver Zlch - mixing, additional production and recording Design Julia Guther - artwork Verena Spring - costume design Gerald von Foris - photography  References   External links  Our Inventions at Discogs
Three Friends and an Invention Russian:  ,   , romanized: Dva druga, model i podruga, lit. 'Two Friends a Model, and a Girlfriend' is a 1927 Soviet film directed by Aleksei Popov. The film is a light-hearted satire about the misadventures of two friends who are young workers at a soap-making factory.  Plot  Ahov and Mahov, young workers at a small soap factory, invent a machine capable of significantly accelerating the production of soap packaging. However, they face many hardships, including bureaucratic indifference from the factory's director, who shows no interest in either the inventors or the manufacturing process. Additionally, they are opposed by nepmen like Ardalion Medalionov, a private entrepreneur and packaging supplier who sees their invention as a threat to his business. While the local Komsomol organization is ready to support the workers, a demonstration of the machine ends in failure due to Medalionov sabotaging it. Pursued by Medalionov and his accomplices, Ahov, Mahov, and Dasha-a fellow factory worker whom they frequently flirt with-set off with their machine on a makeshift raft to reach a district center. However, Medalionov has already...
Howard Kaylan born Howard Lawrence Kaplan June 22, 1947 is an American retired musician and songwriter, who was a founding member and lead singer of the 1960s rock band The Turtles, and, with bandmate and friend Mark Volman, a member of the 1970s rock duo Flo  Eddie, where he used the pseudonym Eddie. He also was a member of Frank Zappa's band, The Mothers of Invention.  Early years  Kaylan was born in the Bronx to a Jewish family and grew up in Utica, New York, and Westchester, a neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. He studied choral music and clarinet, and won a Bank of America Fine Arts Award at age 16. He graduated early from Westchester High School, and briefly attended University of California, Los Angeles on a scholarship.  Music career   The Turtles  Kaylan and Mark Volman founded The Turtles, a popular band of the late 1960s, for which, despite the fact that not all of their songs were written by the band members, Kaylan has been a prolific songwriter, and co-wrote Elenore with his bandmates. In May of 1970, Kaylan and Volman signed on as members of Frank Zappa's band, The Mothers of Invention. The pair recorded tracks on five albums...
Italian inventions and discoveries are objects, processes or techniques invented, innovated or discovered, partially or entirely, by Italians. Italian people - living in the Italic peninsula or abroad - have been throughout history the source of important inventions and innovations in the fields of writing, calendar, mechanical and civil engineering, musical notation, celestial observation, perspective, warfare, long distance communication, storage and production of energy, modern medicine, polymerization and information technology. Italians also contributed in theorizing civil law, scientific method particularly in the fields of physics and astronomy, double-entry bookkeeping, mathematical algebra and analysis, classical and celestial mechanics. Often, things discovered for the first time are also called inventions and in many cases, there is no clear line between the two. The following is a list of inventions, innovations or discoveries known or generally recognized to be Italian.  Alphabetical list of Italian Inventions   A  Aircraft with tractor configuration propeller: the world's first airplane having a Tractor configuration, propeller on the front, was the Goupy No...
Hans Lipperhey , also known as Johann Lippershey or simply Lippershey, was a German-Dutch spectacle-maker. He is commonly associated with the invention of the telescope, because he was the first one who tried to obtain a patent for it. It is, however, unclear if he was the first one to build a telescope.  Biography  Lipperhey was born in Wesel, now in western Germany, around 1570. He settled in Middelburg, the capital of the province of Zeeland, now in the Netherlands, in 1594, married the same year and became a citizen of Zeeland in 1602. During that time he became a master lens grinder and spectacle maker and established a shop. He remained in Middelburg until his death, in September 1619.  Invention of the telescope  Hans Lipperhey is known for the earliest written record of a refracting telescope, a patent he filed in 1608. His work with optical devices grew out of his work as a spectacle maker, an industry that had started in Venice and Florence in the thirteenth century, and later expanded to the Netherlands and Germany. Lipperhey applied to the States General of the Netherlands on 2 October 1608 for a patent for his instrument for...
Walter Houser Brattain  BRAT-n February 10, 1902 - October 13, 1987 was an American physicist who shared the 1956 Nobel Prize in Physics with John Bardeen and William Shockley for their invention of the point-contact transistor. Brattain devoted much of his life to research on surface states.  Early life and education  Walter Houser Brattain was born on February 10, 1902, in Amoy , Fujian, to American parents, Ross R. Brattain and Ottilie Houser. His father was of Scottish descent, while his mother's parents were both immigrants from Stuttgart, Germany. Ross was a teacher at the Ting-Wen Institute, a private school for Chinese boys. Ottilie was a gifted mathematician. Both were graduates of Whitman College. Ottilie and baby Walter returned to the United States in 1903, and Ross followed shortly afterward. The family lived for several years in Spokane, Washington, then settled on a cattle ranch near Tonasket, Washington, in 1911. Brattain attended high school in Washington, spending one year at Queen Anne High School, two years at Tonasket High School, and one year at Moran School for Boys. He then attended Whitman College, where he studied under Benjamin H. Brown...
A pinky swear, or pinky promise, is a traditional gesture most commonly practiced amongst children involving the locking of the pinkies of two people to signify that a promise has been made. The gesture is taken to signify that the person can break the finger of the one who broke the promise. The tradition appears to be a relatively modern invention, possibly as a continuation of older finger traditions.  Prevalence worldwide  In North America, it is most common amongst school-aged children or adults and close friends and has existed since at least 1860, when the Dictionary of Americanisms listed the following accompanying promise: Pinky swearing has origins in Japan from 1600 to 1803, where it is called yubikiri and often additionally confirmed with the vow Pinky swear, whoever lies will be made to swallow a thousand needles. , Yubikiri genman, uso tsuitara hari senbon nomasu. In South Korea in the 21st century, the hooked pinky has been followed by a seal, wherein the thumbs touch each other while the pinkies are still hooked. In Taiwan, stamping after hooking pinkies has been commonplace for over 30 years. In Belfast, Northern...
Aina Wifalk was a Swedish social scientist and inventor of the modern walker.  Life and work  Wifalk was born in Lund, Sweden on 21 March 1928. In 1949, during her apprenticeship as a nurse, she fell ill with polio. The illness forced the 21-year old Wifalk to end her apprenticeship. From then on she campaigned for people with disabilities. In 1952 she founded a club for physically disabled people in her hometown Lund, in 1958 an association for patients with multiple sclerosis in the Vstmanland region and in 1968 the National Association for Accident Victims in Vsters. After her aborted education, she studied social sciences. From 1957 on, she worked as a consultant in the orthopedic clinic in Vsters. At the end of the 1960s, she also advised the city of Vsters on the interests of disabled people. Aina Wifalk died on 16 June 1983 at the age of 55 in Vsters.  Inventions  Wifalk developed two aids for people with physical impairments: the manuped and the walker. She did not patent her inventions because she wanted to make them available to as many disabled people as possible. She received only royalties from the sale of her developments...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 863 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Internet vigilantism is the act of carrying out vigilante activities through the Internet. The term encompasses vigilantism against alleged scams, crimes, and non-Internet-related behavior. The expanding scope of media savvy and online interaction has enabled vigilantes to utilize methods specific to the Internet in order to distribute justice to parties they consider to be corrupt, but who have not committed a formal crime or have not been held accountable by the criminal justice system. Internet vigilantism originated in the early 2000s and has since evolved to include a variety of methods such as hacking, baiting, and public shaming. Internet vigilantism changes in cultural and political drive depending on location, and has varying relationships to state authority depending on context. There are many internet vigilante groups as well as individuals.  Description  The term internet vigilantism describes punitive public denunciations, aimed at swaying public opinion in order to take justice into one's own hands by engaging in forms of targeted surveillance, unwanted attention, negative publicity, repression, coercion or dissuasion. Associate professor in sociology Benjamin Loveluck...
MH Sub I, LLC dba Internet Brands is a digital media, marketing services, and software company based in El Segundo, California, United States, that operates online media, community, e-commerce, and SaaS businesses in vertical markets. Its largest businesses are in online health and legal services. The company's website indicates that it employs more than 7,000 people globally.  Businesses   WebMD and Medscape  The company acquired its largest businesses, WebMD and Medscape, in a 2.8 billion transaction in 2017. In 2018, WebMD acquired Frontline Communications and Jobson. In 2019, WebMD acquired Aptus Health from Merck. In 2020, WebMD acquired: StayWell and Krames, also from Merck and Germany-based Coliquio. In 2021, WebMD acquired ADDitude and the Wellness Network. In 2022, WebMD acquired Mercury Health Care, a spinout of Healthgrades. In 2022, WebMD acquired Jim.fr, a medical news and information website for physicians based in France. In 2023, Internet Brands acquired Limeade, a digital health and wellness platform, as well as Grupo Saned, a health and medical information services company in Spain. In 2024, WebMD acquired the operating assets of Healthwise, a provider...
Internets, also known as The Internets, is a Bushism-turned catchphrase used humorously to portray the speaker as ignorant about the Internet or about technology in general, or alternatively as having a provincial or folksy attitude toward technology. Former United States President George W. Bush first used the word publicly during the 2000 election campaign. The term gained cachet as an Internet humor meme following Bush's use of the term in the second 2004 presidential election debate on October 8, 2004.  Presidential usages  Bush used the word Internets in his third presidential debate against Al Gore on October 17, 2000: JOYCE CLEAMER, AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm very concerned about the morality of our country now. TV, movies, the music that our children are, you know, barraged with every day. And I want to know if there's anything that can be worked out with the-Hollywood, or whoever, to help get rid of some of this bad language and whatever, you know...BUSH: ... You bet there's things that government can do. We can work with the entertainment industry to provide family hour. We can have filters on Internets where public money is spent. There ought to be filters in public...
The Internet in Norway is available through Fiber or Mobile. The country code top level domain is .no.  History  In June 1973, Norway became the first country after the United States on the ARPANET. NORSAR at Kjeller just outside Oslo was connected by satellite to the SDAC in Virginia, US as part of ARPANET in order to monitor nuclear test-ban treaties with the Soviet Union. A connection from NORSAR to UCL in London was added the following month. Pl Spilling and Yngvar Lundh at NDRE and Dag Belsnes at the University of Oslo were involved in testing and developing TCPIP and packet speech over SATNET in the late 1970s. Norway migrated to TCPIP in March 1982, ahead of the ARPANET. Uninett was established in 1976 as the national research and education network . In 1987, Uninett gained responsibility for the .no top-level domain. By 1990, NORDUnet was one of the first networks on the Internet.  Top-level domain  .no is the Internet country code top-level domain for Norway. Norid, the domain name registry, is based in Trondheim, is owned by the state-owned Uninett and operates under supervision of the Norwegian...
Internet in Russia, or Russian Internet Russian:  , romanized: rossiyskiy Internet, lit. 'Russia-related Internet', and sometimes Runet a portmanteau of Russian and Internet, is the part of the Internet that is related to the Russian Federation. As of 2015, Internet access in Russia is available to businesses and home users in various forms, including dial-up, cable, DSL, FTTH, mobile, wireless and satellite. As of 2020, 122,488,468 Russians were Internet users. As of September 2020, Russia ranked 47th among the world's countries by the fixed broadband Internet access speed, with an average download speed of 75.91 mbits, and 88th by mobile network Internet access speed, with 22.83 mbits. According to Freedom House, the Internet in Russia is Not Free as of 2019. In September 2011, Russia overtook Germany on the European market with the highest number of unique visitors online. In March 2013, a survey found that Russian had become the second-most commonly used language on the web after English. Russians are strong users of social networks, of which Odnoklassniki.ru used by 75 of 25-35-year-old Russians in 2009 and...
An autonomous system is a collection of connected Internet Protocol routing prefixes under the control of one or more network operators on behalf of a single administrative entity or domain, that presents a common and clearly defined routing policy to the Internet. Each AS is assigned an autonomous system number , for use in Border Gateway Protocol routing. ASNs are assigned to local Internet registries and end-user organizations by their respective regional Internet registries , which in turn receive blocks of ASNs for reassignment from the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority . The IANA also maintains a registry of ASNs which are reserved for private use and should therefore not be announced to the global Internet. Originally, the definition required control by a single entity, typically an Internet service provider or a very large organization with independent connections to multiple networks, that adhered to a single and clearly defined routing policy. In March 1996, the newer definition came into use because multiple organizations can run BGP using private ASNs to an ISP that connects all those organizations to the Internet. Even though...
This article is about the Internet in Spain. In the 2022 Digital Economy and Society Index , Spain ranked 3rd in Connectivity, supported by its advanced broadband and developing 5G network. The country achieves 5th place in Digital Public Services, reflecting its efficient e-government services. In human capital, Spain is 10th, contending with a shortage of information and communication technology specialists and gender disparity in the field. For the Integration of Digital Technology, Spain is ranked 11th, focusing on digital advancement in small and medium-sized enterprises .  History  RETD was the first public data network in the world when it became operational in 1972. It evolved into Iberpac.  User statistics  Internet users: 42.40 million users 91.0 of the population Fixed broadband: 33.6 million subscriptions, 13th in the world 83.4 of the population, 37th in the world . Mobile broadband: 25.0 million subscriptions, 13th in the world 53.2 of the population, 24th in the world . Internet hosts: 4.2 million hosts, 26th in the world . IPv4: 28.4 million addresses allocated, 0.7 of the world total 604 addresses per 1000 persons...
This is a list of countries by Internet connection speed for average and median data transfer rates for Internet access by end-users. The difference between average and median speeds is the way individual measurements are aggregated. Average speeds are more commonly used but can give a wrong impression of the actual user experience, since fast connections can bias the average results. Median results represent the point where half the population has faster and the other half of the population has slower data transfer rates.  Fixed broadband  This is a sortable list of broadband internet connection speed by country, ranked by Speedtest.net data for March 2026.  Mobile connection  This is a sortable list of mobile connection speed by country, ranked by Speedtest.net data for March 2026.  See also  List of countries by number of Internet users  References   External links  akamai's - Q4 2015 report akamai's - Q3 2015 report
On November 3, 2020, the District of Columbia held elections for several local and federal government offices. Its primary elections were held on June 2, 2020. In addition to the U.S. presidential race voters elected one of its two shadow senators, its nonvoting member of the House of Representatives, its Shadow congressperson to the House of Representatives, and 6 of 13 seats on the council. There is also one ballot measure which was voted on.  Federal elections   President of the United States  Washington, D.C., has 3 electoral votes in the Electoral College. The district has leaned heavily Democratic in each presidential election since 1964, the first one in which its population was able to vote.  United States House of Representatives  Eleanor Holmes Norton ran for re-election as a non-voting delegate to the House of Representatives.  Shadow Senator  Incumbent Paul Strauss was re-elected to a sixth term as a shadow senator.  Shadow Representative  Incumbent Franklin Garcia declined to run for re-election. Democrat Oye Owolewa, independent Sohaer Syed, and Statehood Green Joyce Robinson-Paul competed for his open seat.  District elections   Council... 
Cionopsis is a genus of true weevils in the beetle family Curculionidae. There are about five described species in Cionopsis.  Species  These five species belong to the genus Cionopsis: Cionopsis crispula Burke, 1981 c Cionopsis echinata Burke, 1981 c Cionopsis lineola Burke, 1982 i c b Cionopsis maculata Burke, 1982 i c b Cionopsis palliatus Champion, G.C., 1903 c Data sources: i  ITIS, c  Catalogue of Life, g  GBIF, b  Bugguide.net  References   Further reading   External links 
Ande or Morouas is an Oceanic language spoken in central Espiritu Santo Island in Vanuatu.  References  Franois, Alexandre Franjieh, Michael Lacrampe, Sbastien Schnell, Stefan , The exceptional linguistic density of Vanuatu, in Franois, Alexandre Lacrampe, Sbastien Franjieh, Michael Schnell, Stefan , The Languages of Vanuatu: Unity and Diversity, Studies in the Languages of Island Melanesia, Canberra: Asia Pacific Linguistics Open Access, pp. 1-21, ISBN 9781922185235
The Elements is a 1959 song with lyrics by musical humorist, mathematician and lecturer Tom Lehrer, which recites the names of all the chemical elements known at the time of writing, up to number 102, nobelium. Lehrer arranged the music of the song from the tune of the Major-General's Song from The Pirates of Penzance by Gilbert and Sullivan. The song can be found on Lehrer's albums Tom Lehrer in Concert, More of Tom Lehrer and An Evening Wasted with Tom Lehrer. The song is also included in the musical revue Tom Foolery, along with many of Lehrer's other songs.  Description of the song  The ordering of elements in the lyrics fits the meter of the song, and includes much alliteration, and thus has little or no relation to the ordering in the periodic table. This can be seen for example in the opening and closing lines: Lehrer had been a mathematics student and lecturer at Harvard in the closing lines of the song, he pronounced Harvard and discovered, affecting a Northeastern elite accent to make the two words rhyme. He accompanied himself on the piano while singing the song.  Background  The music of The Elements is arranged from the tune of the Major-General's...
General Sir Richard Wilbraham was a British Army officer who became colonel of the Royal Fusiliers .  Early life  He was a son of Randle Bootle-Wilbraham of Rode Hall and, his second wife, Sibylla Egerton. Among his siblings were Charlotte Wilbraham and the novelist Frances Wilbraham. His maternal grandparents were Philip Egerton, and Mary Eyles a daughter of Sir Francis Haskins Eyles-Stiles, and among his maternal family were uncles Sir John Grey Egerton, 8th Baronet and Sir Philip Grey Egerton, 9th Baronet. His paternal grandparents were Richard Wilbraham-Bootle, MP for Chester, and the former Mary Bootle daughter and heiress of Robert Bootle of Lathom House. His uncle was Edward Bootle-Wilbraham, 1st Baron Skelmersdale.  Career  In the mid-1830s, Captain Wilbraham was attached to the Persian army to instruct local riflemen. The account of his travels in the lands between the Caspian and the Black Sea, including Georgia and the Caucasus, was published in London in 1839. Wilbraham then served in the Syrian War. Promoted to major in the 7th Regiment of foot, Wilbraham...
Goiana is a city in Brazil in the northeast of the state of Pernambuco, roughly 65 km north of the city of Recife, 51 km from the capital of Paraba and 2,187 km from Braslia. Its historic center was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1938. It also has the easternmost continental point in its state, at Ponta do Funil in the coastal district of Ponta de Pedras.  Geography  Goiana is built on a fertile plain between the Tracunham River and Capibaribe River near their confluence, where they merge to form the Goiana River. The town is around is 25 km from the coast. It is also the easternmost city in Pernambuco. The town is the commercial centre for one of the richest agricultural districts of the state, which produces sugar, rum, coffee, tobacco, cotton, cattle, hides and castor oil. Goiana is one of the oldest towns in the state, and was occupied by the Dutch from 1636 to 1654. The municipality contains most of the 6,677 hectares Aca-Goiana Extractive Reserve, a sustainable use conservation unit created in 2007.  History  Originally occupied by Brazilian Indians, Caets and Potiguaras, the village became a parish in 1568 when Portuguese...
Sri Madduramma Temple, located in Huskur in the city of Bangalore, Karnataka, India, is a temple dedicated to the Hindu deity Madduramma. It is one of the oldest temples dating back to the Chola period. Every year the Grand festival is celebrated during March or April month.  Reference List 
Mousa Refan also known as Akbar Refan , is an Iranian electrical engineer and former military officer. In 2012 he was elected as the featured electrical engineer of Iran by Iran Academy of Science.  Early life and education  Born in 1958 in Kazerun, Fars province, Refan obtained his BS in electrical engineering from University of Tehran.  Military career  Refan was one of the Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line taking over the U.S. embassy in 1979, who entered Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and reached at top of its command hierarchy. He was founder and the first commander of the IRGC's Air Force. Refan wanted to transform the military branch into a major aerial warfare force parallel to the regular air force. He resigned in 1990, reportedly due to what he deemed lack of sufficient support from IRGC leadership, according to Jamal S. Suwaidi.  Energy sector career  Following departure from the IRGC, Refan entered MAPNA Group. He was manager and director of management committee of MAPNA for 17 years from its establishment to 2009.  Views  According to the Israeli institute Intelligence and Terrorism Information...
Willcox's, located in Aiken, South Carolina, US, was an internationally known inn during the Aiken Winter Colony heyday. Operated from 1898 to 1957 by members of the Willcox family, the still-magnificent building reflects the influence of both Second Empire and Colonial Revival styles of architecture. The plan of the building is irregular in shape, consisting of a central block with asymmetrical wings. Of Aiken's once famous resort hostelries, only Willcox's is still standing. The landmark property was listed on the National Register of Historic Places March 19, 1982.  History  In 1891 the Englishman Frederick Willcox, his Swedish wife Elise Wellborn, and their two sons, Frederick and Albert came to Aiken. The family built a house on the northwest corner of Chesterfield Street and Colleton Avenue and established a catering company in their home. Elise soon became renowned for her preparation of fine foods and the business was heavily patronized by Aiken Winter Colony families, fabulously wealthy founders and heirs to the fortunes made during the American Industrial Revolution.  Highland Park Hotel fire  At about this same time, in 1898, the first Highland Park Hotel burned...
HMS Douglas was an Admiralty type flotilla leader of the British Royal Navy. Built by Cammell Laird, Douglas commissioned in 1918, just before the end of the First World War. During the Second World War, Douglas served with Force H out of Gibraltar and as a convoy escort. She was sold for scrap in March 1945.  Design and construction  In December 1916, the British Admiralty placed orders for two large flotilla leaders, HMS Bruce and Douglas from Cammell Laird as a follow on to the prototype of the class, HMS Scott, which had been ordered in April that year. The ship was 320 feet 0 inches long between perpendiculars and 332 feet 5 inches overall, with a beam of 31 feet 9 inches and a draught of 12 feet 6 inches . Design displacement was 1,580 long tons normal and 2,050 long tons full load. The ship's machinery consisted of four Yarrow boilers that fed steam at 250 pounds per square inch to two sets of Parsons single-reduction geared-steam turbines, rated at 40,000 shaft horsepower . This gave a design speed of 36.5 knots light, which corresponded...
Get Rhythm is a song written and recorded by American singer-songwriter and musician Johnny Cash. It was originally released as the B-side to the single release I Walk the Line in 1956 on Sun 241. It was re-released with overdubbed live effects in September 1969 as an A-side single and reached number 60 on the Billboard Pop chart.  Critical reception  Alice Randall in the book My Country Roots: The Ultimate MP3 Guide to America's Original Outsider Music asks the question, racist, racialist, or race appreciating? You decide. Maybe the grinning 'boy' hides something worth knowing in his mask as well as behind his mask. Well maybe he was white trash.  Chart performance  Get Rhythm was released in 1956 as the B-side to Cash's first 1 hit, I Walk the Line. In 1969, the original recording of Get Rhythm was released as a single itself, with sound effects dubbed in to simulate the sound of a live recording. This rerelease went to 23 on the country charts.  Other versions  NRBQ first recorded Terry Adams' rock'n'roll arrangement of Get Rhythm on At Yankee Stadium , and again on Grooves in Orbit . In 1986 British pub rock band Dr. Feelgood released...
In mathematics, in the field of group theory, a metanilpotent group is a group that is nilpotent by nilpotent. In other words, it has a normal nilpotent subgroup such that the quotient group is also nilpotent. In symbols, G displaystyle G is metanilpotent if there is a normal subgroup N displaystyle N such that both N displaystyle N and G  N displaystyle GN are nilpotent. The following are clear: Every metanilpotent group is a solvable group. Every subgroup and every quotient of a metanilpotent group is metanilpotent.  References  J.C. Lennox, D.J.S. Robinson, The Theory of Infinite Soluble Groups, Oxford University Press, 2004, ISBN 0-19-850728-3. P.27. D.J.S. Robinson, A Course in the Theory of Groups, GTM 80, Springer Verlag, 1996, ISBN 0-387-94461-3. P.150.
The AEG J.I was a German biplane ground attack aircraft designed and produced by the German aircraft manufacturer Allgemeine Elektricitts-Gesellschaft. It was a mission-specific derivative of the AEG C.IV reconnaissance aircraft. The J.I was developed as an interim ground attack aircraft, being redesigned from the C.IV to feature armour plating and the more powerful Benz Bz IV piston engine. For engaging ground targets, a pair of 7.92 mm downward-facing LMG 0815 machine guns were equipped. The aircraft's design was kept as similar to the C.IV as possible to minimise development and production schedules however, to offset that aircraft's increased weight, it was necessary to add lower wingtip ailerons as well as to reinforce the shock absorbers. A key visual difference between the C.IV and J.I was the latter's angular nose due to the armouring. An improved model, the J.II, was produced in 1918 during the closing months of the war it featured aerodynamic improvements and an extended fuselage. Around 609 aircraft, both J.Is and J.IIs, had been produced by the enactment of the Armistice of 11 November 1918 that ended the conflict. The type saw limited use following the war...
This is a list of the Maryland state historical markers in Saint Mary's County. This is intended to be a complete list of the official state historical markers placed in Saint Mary's County, Maryland by the Maryland Historical Trust . The locations of the historical markers, as well as the latitude and longitude coordinates as provided by the MHT's database, are included below. There are currently 20 historical markers located in Saint Mary's County.  References 
The women's giant slalom competition of the Vancouver 2010 Olympics was held at Whistler Creekside in Whistler, British Columbia, on February 24. Following the first run, the event was postponed due to heavy fog in the afternoon the second run was held the next morning, February 25. Viktoria Rebensburg of Germany won the gold medal, her first victory in international competition. Her previous best finish was second place at a GS a month earlier, her only World Cup podium.  Results   References 
Se Acab is a Spanish language phrase meaning it's over. It may refer to:  Songs  Se Acabo by The Beatnuts feat. Magic Juan and Swinger Se acab by Mara Jimnez Se Acab el Amor by Abraham Mateo feat. Yandel and Jennifer Lopez Se Acab El Abuso by Anthony Santos Se Acab Aquel Amor by Selena y Los Dinos  Organisations  Se Acab La Fiesta  See also  SeAcab, a feminist hashtag using the phrase
In mathematics, equality is a relationship between two quantities or expressions, stating that they have the same value, or represent the same mathematical object. Equality between A and B is denoted with an equals sign as A  B, and read A equals B. A written expression of equality is called an equation or identity depending on the context. Two objects that are not equal are said to be distinct. Equality is often considered a primitive notion, meaning it is not formally defined, but rather informally said to be a relation each thing bears to itself and nothing else. This characterization is notably circular , reflecting a general conceptual difficulty in fully characterizing the concept. Basic properties about equality like reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity have been understood intuitively since at least the ancient Greeks, but were not symbolically stated as general properties of relations until the late 19th century by Giuseppe Peano. Other properties like substitution and function application weren't formally stated until the development of symbolic logic. There are generally two ways that equality is formalized in mathematics: through logic or through...
In mathematics, a relation denotes some kind of relationship between two objects in a set, which may or may not hold. As an example, is less than is a relation on the set of natural numbers it holds, for instance, between the values 1 and 3 , and likewise between 3 and 4 , but not between the values 3 and 1 nor between 4 and 4, that is, 3  1 and 4  4 both evaluate to false. As another example, is sister of is a relation on the set of all people, it holds e.g. between Marie Curie and Bronisawa Duska, and likewise vice versa. Set members may not be in relation to a certain degree - either they are in relation or they are not. Formally, a relation R over a set  can be seen as a set of ordered pairs of members of . The relation R holds between x and y if is a member of R. For example, the relation is less than on the natural numbers is an infinite set Rless of pairs of natural numbers that contains both and , but neither nor . The relation is a nontrivial divisor of on the set of one-digit natural numbers is sufficiently small to be shown here: Rdv   , , , , ,  for...
Ronald Maurice Bean, better known professionally as Mathematics , is a hip hop producer and DJ for the Wu-Tang Clan and its solo and affiliate projects. He designed the Wu-Tang Clan logo.  Biography  As well as using rappers from Mathematics' home borough of Queens, Eyes-Low and Buddah Bless, Love Hell Or Right had appearances from all the Wu-Tang Clan members except GZA and the then-imprisoned Ol' Dirty Bastard. Mathematics soon signed to the popular independent hip hop label Nature Sounds home to Wu-Tang colleague Masta Killa as well as MF Doom and released his second album The Problem in 2005. On this album the entire Wu-Tang Clan appeared, including a posthumous appearance from Ol' Dirty Bastard. As well as working on his solo albums, Mathematics has continued to contribute beats to many Wu-Tang releases, including the first albums by Masta Killa and Streetlife. In January 2012 he was to release a sequel to The Problem entitled The Answer, entirely produced by him with Wu-Tang members such as Raekwon, GZA, Method Man, Cappadonna, Masta Killa, Ol' Dirty Bastard, Ghostface Killah. Other artists include Redman and artists...
In mathematics, a space is a set endowed with a structure defining the relationships among the elements of the set. A subspace is a subset of the parent space which retains the same mathematical structure. While modern mathematics uses many types of spaces, such as Euclidean spaces, linear spaces, topological spaces, Hilbert spaces, or probability spaces, it does not define the notion of space itself. A space consists of selected mathematical objects that are treated as points, and selected relationships between these points. The nature of the points can vary widely: for example, the points can represent numbers, functions on another space, or subspaces of another space. It is the relationships that define the nature of the space. More precisely, isomorphic spaces are considered identical, where an isomorphism between two spaces is a one-to-one correspondence between their points that preserves the relationships. For example, the relationships between the points of a three-dimensional Euclidean space are uniquely determined by Euclid's axioms, and all three-dimensional Euclidean spaces are considered identical. Topological notions such as continuity...
Foundations of mathematics are the logical and mathematical frameworks that allow the development of mathematics without generating self-contradictory theories, and to have reliable concepts of theorems, proofs, algorithms, etc. in particular. This may also include the philosophical study of the relation of this framework with reality. The term foundations of mathematics was not coined before the end of the 19th century, although foundations were first established by the ancient Greek philosophers under the name of Aristotle's logic and systematically applied in Euclid's Elements. A mathematical assertion is considered as truth only if it is a theorem that is proved from true premises by means of a sequence of syllogisms , the premises being either already proved theorems or self-evident assertions called axioms or postulates. These foundations were tacitly assumed to be definitive until the introduction of infinitesimal calculus by Isaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in the 17th century. This new area of mathematics involved new methods of reasoning and new basic concepts continuous functions, derivatives, limits that were not well founded, but had astonishing...
In mathematics, a module is a generalization of the notion of vector space in which the field of scalars is replaced by a ring. The concept of a module also generalizes the notion of an abelian group, since the abelian groups are exactly the modules over the ring of integers. Like a vector space, a module is an additive abelian group, and scalar multiplication is distributive over the operations of addition between elements of the ring or module and is compatible with the ring multiplication. Modules are very closely related to the representation theory of groups. They are also one of the central notions of commutative algebra and homological algebra, and are used widely in algebraic geometry and algebraic topology.  Introduction and definition   Motivation  In a vector space, the set of scalars is a field and acts on the vectors by scalar multiplication, subject to certain axioms such as the distributive law. In a module, the scalars need only be a ring, so the module concept represents a significant generalization. In commutative algebra, both ideals and quotient rings are modules, so that many arguments about ideals or quotient rings can be...
In mathematics, a variable is a symbol, typically a letter, that refers to an unspecified mathematical object. One says colloquially that the variable represents or denotes the object, and that any valid candidate for the object is the value of the variable. The values a variable can take are usually of the same kind, often numbers. More specifically, the values involved may form a set, such as the set of real numbers. The object may not always exist, or it might be uncertain whether any valid candidate exists or not. For example, one could represent two integers by the variables p and q and require that the value of the square of p is twice the square of q, which in algebraic notation can be written p2  2 q2. A definitive proof that this relationship is impossible to satisfy when p and q are restricted to nonzero integers isn't obvious, but it has been known since ancient times and has had a big influence on mathematics ever since. Originally, the term variable was used primarily for the argument of a function, in which case its value could be thought of as varying within the domain of the function. This is the motivation for the choice of the...
In mathematics, the fiber or fibre of an element y displaystyle y under a function f displaystyle f is the preimage of the singleton set  y  displaystyle y , that is f  1   x : f  y  . displaystyle f-1xmathrel : fy.  Properties and applications   In elementary set theory  If  displaystyle  and Y displaystyle Y are the domain and image of f displaystyle f , respectively, then the fibers of f displaystyle f are the sets in  f...
In mathematics, a constraint is a condition of an optimization problem that the solution must satisfy. There are several types of constraints-primarily equality constraints, inequality constraints, and integer constraints. The set of candidate solutions that satisfy all constraints is called the feasible set.  Example  The following is a simple optimization problem: min f  x 1 2  x 2 4 displaystyle min fx12x24 subject to x 1  1 displaystyle x1geq 1 and x 2  1 , displaystyle x21, where x displaystyle mathbf x  denotes the vector...
In mathematics, a projection is a mapping from a set to itself-or an endomorphism of a mathematical structure-that is idempotent, that is, equals its composition with itself. The image of a point or a subset  S displaystyle S  under a projection is called the projection of  S displaystyle S . An everyday example of a projection is the casting of shadows onto a plane : the projection of a point is its shadow on the sheet of paper, and the projection of a point on the sheet of paper is that point itself . The shadow of a three-dimensional sphere is a disk. Originally, the notion of projection was introduced in Euclidean geometry to denote the projection of the three-dimensional Euclidean space onto a plane in it, like the shadow example. The two main projections of this kind are: The projection from a point onto a plane or central projection: If C is a point, called the centre of projection, then the projection of a point P different from C onto a plane that does not contain C is the intersection of the line CP with the plane. The points P such that the...
In mathematics, a duality translates concepts, theorems or mathematical structures into other concepts, theorems or structures in a one-to-one fashion, often by means of an involution operation: if the dual of A is B, then the dual of B is A. In other cases the dual of the dual - the double dual or bidual - is not necessarily identical to the original . Such involutions sometimes have fixed points, so that the dual of A is A itself. For example, Desargues' theorem is self-dual in this sense under the standard duality in projective geometry. In mathematical contexts, duality has numerous meanings. It has been described as a very pervasive and important concept in mathematics and an important general theme that has manifestations in almost every area of mathematics. Many mathematical dualities between objects of two types correspond to pairings, bilinear functions from an object of one type and another object of the second type to some family of scalars. For instance, linear algebra duality corresponds in this way to bilinear maps from pairs of vector spaces to scalars, the duality between distributions and the associated test functions...
In mathematics, more specifically in general topology and related branches, a net or Moore-Smith sequence is a function whose domain is a directed set. The codomain of this function is usually some topological space. Nets directly generalize the concept of a sequence in a metric space. Nets are primarily used in the fields of analysis and topology, where they are used to characterize many important topological properties that sequences are unable to characterize this shortcoming of sequences motivated the study of sequential spaces and Frchet-Urysohn spaces. Nets are in one-to-one correspondence with filters.  History  The concept of a net was first introduced by E. H. Moore and Herman L. Smith in 1922. The term net was coined by John L. Kelley. The related concept of a filter was developed in 1937 by Henri Cartan.  Definitions  A directed set is a non-empty set A displaystyle A together with a preorder, typically automatically assumed to be denoted by  displaystyle ,leq , , with the property that it is also upward...
In mathematics, a ring is an algebraic structure consisting of a set with two binary operations typically called addition and multiplication and denoted like addition and multiplication of integers. They work similarly to integer addition and multiplication, except that multiplication in a ring does not need to be commutative. Ring elements may be numbers such as integers or complex numbers, but they may also be non-numerical objects such as polynomials, square matrices, functions, and power series. More formally, a ring is a set that is endowed with two binary operations such that the ring is an abelian group with respect to addition. The multiplication is associative, is distributive over the addition operation, and has a multiplicative identity element. Some authors apply the term ring to a further generalization, often called a rng, that omits the requirement for a multiplicative identity, and instead call the structure defined above a ring with identity. A commutative ring is a ring with a commutative multiplication. This property has profound implications on ring properties. Commutative algebra, the theory of commutative rings, is a major branch...
Reverse mathematics is a program in mathematical logic that seeks to determine which axioms are required to prove theorems of mathematics. Its defining method can briefly be described as going backwards from the theorems to the axioms, in contrast to the ordinary mathematical practice of deriving theorems from axioms. It can be conceptualized as sculpting out necessary conditions from sufficient ones. The reverse mathematics program was foreshadowed by results in set theory such as the classical theorem that the axiom of choice and Zorn's lemma are equivalent over ZF set theory. The goal of reverse mathematics, however, is to study possible axioms of ordinary theorems of mathematics rather than possible axioms for set theory. Reverse mathematics is usually carried out using subsystems of second-order arithmetic, where many of its definitions and methods are inspired by previous work in constructive analysis and proof theory. The use of second-order arithmetic also allows many techniques from recursion theory to be employed many results in reverse mathematics have corresponding results in computable analysis. In higher-order reverse mathematics, the focus is on subsystems of higher...
In contemporary education, mathematics education known in Europe as the didactics or pedagogy of mathematics is the practice of teaching, learning, and carrying out scholarly research into the transfer of mathematical knowledge. Although research into mathematics education is primarily concerned with the tools, methods, and approaches that facilitate practice or the study of practice, it also covers an extensive field of study encompassing a variety of different concepts, theories and methods. National and international organisations regularly hold conferences and publish literature in order to improve mathematics education.  Objectives  At different times and in different cultures and countries, mathematics education has attempted to achieve a variety of different objectives. These objectives have included: The teaching and learning of basic numeracy skills to all students The teaching of practical mathematics arithmetic, elementary algebra, plane and solid geometry, trigonometry, probability, statistics to most students, to equip them to follow a trade or craft and to understand mathematics commonly used in news and the Internet such as percentages, charts, probability...
In mathematics, the image of a function  f :   Y displaystyle f:to Y  is the set of all  f displaystyle f  such that  x displaystyle x  belongs to the domain of  f displaystyle f . The image by  f displaystyle f  of an element  x displaystyle x  of the domain of  f displaystyle f  is  f displaystyle f , that is, the output corresponding to the input  x displaystyle x . The image by  f displaystyle f  of a subset  S displaystyle S  of the domain of  f displaystyle f  is the set of all  f ...
Division is one of the four basic operations of arithmetic. The other operations are addition, subtraction, and multiplication. What is being divided is called the dividend, which is divided by the divisor, and the result is called the quotient. At an elementary level the division of two natural numbers is, among other possible interpretations, the process of calculating the number of times one number is contained within another. For example, if 20 apples are divided evenly between 4 people, everyone receives 5 apples . The division with remainder or Euclidean division of two natural numbers provides an integer quotient, which is the number of times the second number is completely contained in the first number, and a remainder, which is the part of the first number that remains, when in the course of computing the quotient, no further full chunk of the size of the second number can be allocated. For example, if 21 apples are divided between 4 people, everyone receives 5 apples, and 1 apple remains. For division to always yield one number rather than a quotient and a remainder, the natural numbers must be extended to rational numbers or real numbers. In these enlarged...
In mathematics, the adjective trivial is often used to refer to a claim or a case which can be readily obtained from context, or a particularly simple object possessing a given structure . The noun triviality usually refers to a simple technical aspect of some proof or definition. The origin of the term in mathematical language comes from the medieval trivium curriculum, which distinguishes from the more difficult quadrivium curriculum. The opposite of trivial is nontrivial, which is commonly used to indicate that an example or a solution is not simple, or that a statement or a theorem is not easy to prove. Triviality does not have a rigorous definition in mathematics. It is subjective, and often determined in a given situation by the knowledge and experience of those considering the case.  Trivial and nontrivial solutions  In mathematics, the term trivial is often used to refer to objects with a very simple structure. These include, among others: Empty set: the set containing no or null members Trivial group: the mathematical group containing only the identity element Trivial ring: a ring defined on a singleton...
Babylonian mathematics also known as Assyro-Babylonian mathematics is the mathematics developed or practiced by the people of Mesopotamia, as attested by sources surviving mainly from the Old Babylonian period to the Seleucid period from the last three or four centuries BC. With respect to content, there is scarcely any difference between the two groups of texts. Babylonian mathematics remained constant, in character and content, for over a millennium. In contrast to the scarcity of sources in Ancient Egyptian mathematics, knowledge of Babylonian mathematics is derived from hundreds of clay tablets unearthed since the 1850s. Written in cuneiform, tablets were inscribed while the clay was moist, and baked hard in an oven or by the heat of the sun. The majority of recovered clay tablets date from 1800 to 1600 BC, and cover topics that include fractions, algebra, quadratic and cubic equations and the Pythagorean theorem. The Babylonian tablet YBC 7289 gives an approximation of 2 displaystyle sqrt 2 accurate to three significant sexagesimal digits about six significant decimal...
In mathematics, the term socle has several related meanings.  Socle of a group  In the context of group theory, the socle of a group G, denoted soc, is the subgroup generated by the minimal normal subgroups of G. It can happen that a group has no minimal non-trivial normal subgroup that is, every non-trivial normal subgroup properly contains another such subgroup and in that case the socle is defined to be the subgroup generated by the identity. The socle is a direct product of minimal normal subgroups. As an example, consider the cyclic group Z12 with generator u, which has two minimal normal subgroups, one generated by u4 which gives a normal subgroup with 3 elements and the other by u6 which gives a normal subgroup with 2 elements. Thus the socle of Z12 is the group generated by u4 and u6, which is just the group generated by u2. The socle is a characteristic subgroup, and hence a normal subgroup. It is not necessarily transitively normal, however. If a group G is a finite solvable group, then the socle can be expressed as a product of elementary abelian p-groups. Thus, in this case, it is just a product of copies of ZpZ for various p, where the same p may occur multiple...
In mathematics, E8 is any of several closely related exceptional simple Lie groups, linear algebraic groups or Lie algebras of dimension 248 the same notation is used for the corresponding root lattice, which has rank 8. The designation E8 comes from the Cartan-Killing classification of the complex simple Lie algebras, which fall into four infinite series labeled An, Bn, Cn, Dn, and five exceptional cases labeled G2, F4, E6, E7, and E8. The E8 algebra is the largest and most complicated of these exceptional cases.  Basic description  The Lie group E8 has dimension 248. Its rank, which is the dimension of its maximal torus, is eight. Therefore, the vectors of the root system are in eight-dimensional Euclidean space: they are described explicitly later in this article. The Weyl group of E8, which is the group of symmetries of the maximal torus that are induced by conjugations in the whole group, has order 214 35 52 7  696729600. The compact group E8 is unique among simple compact Lie groups in that its non-trivial representation of smallest dimension is the adjoint representation acting on the Lie algebra E8 itself it is also the unique one that has the following...
The Encyclopedia of Mathematics also EOM and formerly Encyclopaedia of Mathematics is a large reference work in mathematics.  Overview  The 2002 version contains more than 8,000 entries covering most areas of mathematics at a graduate level, and the presentation is technical in nature. The encyclopedia is edited by Michiel Hazewinkel and was published by Kluwer Academic Publishers until 2003, when Kluwer became part of Springer. The CD-ROM contains animations and three-dimensional objects. The encyclopedia has been translated from the Soviet Matematicheskaya entsiklopediya originally edited by Ivan Matveevich Vinogradov and extended with comments and three supplements adding several thousand articles. Until November 29, 2011, a static version of the encyclopedia could be browsed online free of charge. This URL now redirects to the new wiki incarnation of the EOM.  Encyclopedia of Mathematics wiki  A new dynamic version of the encyclopedia is now available as a public wiki online. This new wiki is a collaboration between Springer and the European Mathematical Society. This new version of the encyclopedia includes the entire contents of the previous online version, but...
In mathematics, an interval is the set of all real numbers lying between two fixed endpoints with no gaps. For example, the set of real numbers consisting of 0, 1, and all numbers in between is an interval, denoted and called the unit interval. An interval may contain neither endpoint , both endpoints , or either endpoint called a semi-open or semi-closed interval. The intervals just described are the bounded intervals. Often intervals are also allowed to extend without bound in one or both directions, with the unbounded side being denoted by a positive or negative infinity symbol. The set of all positive real numbers is an interval in this sense, denoted  the set of all real numbers is an interval that is unbounded on both ends, denoted . Intervals are ubiquitous in mathematical analysis. For example, they occur implicitly in the epsilon-delta definition of continuity the intermediate value theorem asserts that the image of an interval by a continuous function is an interval integrals of real functions are defined over an interval etc. For example, interval arithmetic consists of computing with intervals...
In mathematics, the sign of a real number is its property of being either positive, negative, or 0. Depending on local conventions, zero may be considered as having its own unique sign, having no sign, or having both positive and negative sign. In some contexts, it makes sense to distinguish between a positive and a negative zero. In mathematics and physics, the phrase change of sign is associated with exchanging an object for its additive inverse , an operation which is not restricted to real numbers. It applies among other objects to vectors, matrices, and complex numbers, which are not prescribed to be only either positive, negative, or zero. The word sign is also often used to indicate binary aspects of mathematical or scientific objects, such as odd and even , sense of orientation or rotation , one sided limits, and other concepts described in  Other meanings below.  Sign of a number  Numbers from various number systems, like integers, rationals, complex numbers, quaternions, octonions, ... may have multiple attributes, that fix certain properties of a number. A number system that bears the structure of...
In mathematics, an operator is generally a mapping or function that acts on elements of a space to produce elements of another space possibly and sometimes required to be the same space. There is no general definition of an operator, but the term is often used in place of function when the domain is a set of functions or other structured objects. Also, the domain of an operator is often difficult to characterize explicitly for example in the case of an integral operator, and may be extended so as to act on related objects an operator that acts on functions may act also on differential equations whose solutions are functions that satisfy the equation. for other examples The most basic operators are linear maps, which act on vector spaces. Linear operators refer to linear maps whose domain and range are the same space, for example from R n displaystyle mathbb R n to R n displaystyle mathbb R n . Such...
Further Mathematics is the title given to a number of advanced secondary mathematics courses. The term Higher and Further Mathematics, and the term Advanced Level Mathematics, may also refer to any of several advanced mathematics courses at many institutions. Globally, Further Mathematics or Further Maths describes a course studied in addition to mathematics at GCSE, GCE AS-Level and A-Level or their equivalent, or one which is delivered as part of the International Baccalaureate Diploma. In the United Kingdom, Further Mathematics describes a course studied in addition to the standard mathematics AS-Level and A-Level courses. In the state of Victoria in Australia, it describes a course delivered as part of the Victorian Certificate of Education for a more detailed explanation.  United Kingdom   Background  Further mathematics can be studied at GCSE level, and at A-Level. A qualification in Further Mathematics involves studying both pure and applied modules. Whilst the pure modules formerly known as Pure 4-6 or Core 4-6, now known as Further Pure 1-3, where 4 exists for the AQA board build on knowledge from the core mathematics modules...
Elementary mathematics, also known as primary or secondary school mathematics, is the study of mathematics topics that are commonly taught at the primary or secondary school levels around the world. It includes a wide range of mathematical concepts and skills, including number sense, algebra, geometry, measurement, and data analysis. These concepts and skills form the foundation for more advanced mathematical study and are essential for success in many fields and everyday life. The study of elementary mathematics is a crucial part of a student's education and lays the foundation for future academic and career success.  Strands of elementary mathematics   Number sense and numeration  Number sense is an understanding of numbers and operations. In the 'Number Sense and Numeration' strand students develop an understanding of numbers by being taught various ways of representing numbers, as well as the relationships among numbers. Properties of the natural numbers such as divisibility and the distribution of prime numbers, are studied in basic number theory, another part of elementary mathematics. Elementary Focus:  Spatial sense  'Measurement skills and concepts' or 'Spatial...
In abstract algebra, a semiheap is an algebraic structure consisting of a non-empty set H with a ternary operation denoted  H displaystyle in H that satisfies a modified associativity property:  a , b , c , d , e  H , d , e   , e    . displaystyle forall a,b,c,d,ein Hquad ,d,e,e. A biunitary element h of a semiheap satisfies  k  for every k in H. A heap is a semiheap in which every element is biunitary. It can be thought of as a group with the identity element...
In mathematics, E7 is the name of several closely related Lie groups, linear algebraic groups or their Lie algebras e7, all of which have dimension 133 the same notation E7 is used for the corresponding root lattice, which has rank 7. The designation E7 comes from the Cartan-Killing classification of the complex simple Lie algebras, which fall into four infinite series labeled An, Bn, Cn, Dn, and five exceptional cases labeled E6, E7, E8, F4, and G2. The E7 algebra is thus one of the five exceptional cases. The fundamental group of the complex form, compact real form, or any algebraic version of E7 is the cyclic group Z2Z, and its outer automorphism group is the trivial group. The dimension of its fundamental representation is 56.  Real and complex forms  There is a unique complex Lie algebra of type E7, corresponding to a complex group of complex dimension 133. The complex adjoint Lie group E7 of complex dimension 133 can be considered as a simple real Lie group of real dimension 266. This has fundamental group Z2Z, has maximal compact subgroup the compact form of E7, and has an outer automorphism group of order 2 generated by complex conjugation. As well...
In mathematics, two sequences of numbers, often experimental data, are proportional or directly proportional if their corresponding elements have a constant ratio. The ratio is called coefficient of proportionality and its reciprocal is known as constant of normalization . Two sequences are inversely proportional if corresponding elements have a constant product. Two functions f displaystyle f and g displaystyle g are proportional if their ratio f g textstyle frac fg is a constant function. If several pairs of variables share the same direct proportionality constant, the equation expressing the equality of these ratios is called a proportion, e.g., ab  xy    k . Proportionality...
Mathematical logic is the study of formal logic within mathematics. Major subareas include model theory, proof theory, set theory, and recursion theory . Research in mathematical logic commonly addresses the mathematical properties of formal systems of logic such as their expressive or deductive power. However, it can also include usage of logic to characterize correct mathematical reasoning or to establish foundations of mathematics. Since its inception, mathematical logic has both contributed to and been motivated by the study of the foundations of mathematics. This study began in the late 19th century with the development of axiomatic frameworks for geometry, arithmetic, and analysis. In the early 20th century it was shaped by David Hilbert's program to prove the consistency of foundational theories. Results of Kurt Gdel, Gerhard Gentzen, and others provided partial resolution to the program, and clarified the issues involved in proving consistency. Work in set theory showed that almost all ordinary mathematics can be formalized in terms of sets, although there are some theorems that cannot be proven in common axiom systems for set theory. Contemporary...
In mathematics, the word constant conveys multiple meanings. As an adjective, it refers to non-variance i.e. unchanging with respect to some other value as a noun, it has two different meanings: A fixed and well-defined number or other non-changing mathematical object, or the symbol denoting it. The terms mathematical constant or physical constant are sometimes used to distinguish this meaning. A function whose value remains unchanged . Such a constant is commonly represented by a variable which does not depend on the main variable in question. For example, a general quadratic function is commonly written as a x 2  b x  c displaystyle ax2bxc , where a, b, and c are constants , and x a variable-a placeholder for the argument of the function being studied. A more explicit way to denote this function is x  a x 2  b x  c...
Mathematicism is 'the effort to employ the formal structure and rigorous method of mathematics as a model for the conduct of philosophy', or the epistemological view that reality is fundamentally mathematical. The term has been applied to a number of philosophers, including Pythagoras and Ren Descartes although the term was not used by themselves. The role of mathematics in Western philosophy has grown and expanded from Pythagoras onwards. It is clear that numbers held a particular importance for the Pythagorean school, although it is the later work of Plato that attracts the label of mathematicism from modern philosophers. Furthermore it is Ren Descartes who provides the first mathematical epistemology which he describes as a mathesis universalis, and which is also referred to as mathematicism.  Pythagoras  Although we do not have writings of Pythagoras himself, good evidence that he pioneered the concept of mathematicism is given by Plato, and summed up in the quotation often attributed to him that everything is mathematics. Aristotle says of the Pythagorean school: The first to devote themselves to mathematics and to make them progress were the so-called Pythagoreans...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 875 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Procedural programming is a programming paradigm, classified as imperative programming, that involves implementing the behavior of a computer program as procedures that call each other. The resulting program is a series of steps that forms a hierarchy of calls to its constituent procedures. The first major procedural programming languages appeared c. 1957-1964, including Fortran, ALGOL, COBOL, PLI and BASIC. Pascal and C were published c. 1970-1972. Computer processors provide hardware support for procedural programming through a stack register and instructions for calling procedures and returning from them. Hardware support for other types of programming is possible, like Lisp machines or Java processors, but no attempt was commercially successful.  Development practices  Certain software development practices are often employed with procedural programming in order to enhance quality and lower development and maintenance costs.  Modularity and scoping  Modularity is about organizing the procedures of a program into separate modules-each of which has a specific and understandable purpose. Minimizing the scope of variables and procedures can enhance...
In computer science, imperative programming is a software programming paradigm that provides specific instructions for how computations should take place. This paradigm may use statements that may change a process's state. In much the same way that the imperative mood in natural languages expresses commands, an imperative program consists of commands for the computer to perform. Imperative programming focuses on describing how a program operates step by step the order of the steps being generally determined in source code by the placement of statements one below the other, rather than on high-level descriptions of its expected results. The term is often used in contrast to declarative programming, which focuses on what the program should accomplish without specifying all the details of how the program should achieve the result.  Procedural programming  Procedural programming is a type of imperative programming in which the program is built from one or more procedures . The terms are often used as synonyms, but the use of procedures has a dramatic effect on how imperative programs appear and how they are constructed. Heavy procedural programming...
Language-oriented programming is a software-development paradigm where language is a software building block with the same status as objects, modules and components, and rather than solving problems in general-purpose programming languages, the programmer creates one or more domain-specific languages for the problem first, and solves the problem in those languages. Language-oriented programming was first described in detail in Martin Ward's 1994 paper Language Oriented Programming.  Concept  The concept of language-oriented programming takes the approach to capture requirements in the user's terms, and then to try to create an implementation language as isomorphic as possible to the user's descriptions, so that the mapping between requirements and implementation is as direct as possible. A measure of the closeness of this isomorphism is the redundancy of the language, defined as the number of editing operations needed to implement a stand-alone change in requirements. It is not assumed a-priori what is the best language for implementing the new language. Rather, the developer can choose among options created by analysis of the information flows - what information...
CLU is a class-based programming language created at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology by Barbara Liskov and her students starting in 1973. While it did not find extensive use, it introduced many features that are used widely now, and is seen as a step in the development of object-oriented programming . Key contributions include abstract data types, call-by-sharing, iterators, multiple return values , type-safe parameterized types, and type-safe variant types. It is also notable for its use of classes with constructors and methods, but without inheritance.  Clusters  The syntax of CLU was based on ALGOL, then the starting point for most new language designs. The key addition was the concept of a cluster, CLU's type extension system and the root of the language's name . Clusters correspond generally to the concept of a class in an OO language. For instance, here is the CLU syntax for a cluster that implements complex numbers: A cluster implements a data abstraction, which is a set of objects and a set of primitive operations to create and manipulate those objects. These correspond to the public components of a class in...
The I International Franz Liszt Piano Competition took place in Utrecht from March 25 to April 8, 2011. The competition was won by Masataka Goto. Olga Kozlova and Oleksandr Poliykov were awarded the 2nd and 3rd prizes.  Jury and results  Lucas Vis Arnaldo Cohen Nikolai Demidenko Cristina Ortiz Enrico Pace Jerome Rose Mza Rubackyt Tams Vsry Jan Wijn  See also  International Franz Liszt Piano Competition  References  Alink-Argerich Foundation  External links  Official website
Barton Town Football Club was a football club based in Barton-upon-Humber, Lincolnshire, England. The club was formed in 1880 and merged with Barton Old Boys in 1995 to form Barton Town Old Boys.  History  Barton Town was formed in 1880, moving to the Marsh Lane ground in 1927. The club were founder members of the Lincolnshire League. They finished bottom of the league in 1956-57 but were runners-up in 1959-60 and then champions in 1960-61. In 1964 the club joined Division Two of the Yorkshire League. They were Division Two runners-up in their first season in the league, earning promotion to Division One. In 1968 the club transferred to the Midland League, before rejoining Division One of the Yorkshire League two seasons later. They finished second-from-bottom of Division One in 1970-71 and were relegated to Division Two. However, they won Division Two the following season and were promoted back to Division One. In 1973-74 Barton finished third-from-bottom of Division One and were relegated to Division Two again. They were Division Two champions in 1979-80, earning promotion back to Division One. However, they left the league at the end of the 1980-81 season to rejoin the Lincolnshire...
Dennis Joseph was an Indian scriptwriter and director known for his work in Malayalam films. He was active during the 1980s and early 1990s. He frequently collaborated with directors Joshiy and Thambi Kannanthanam. He is known for scripting films including Nirakkoottu , Rajavinte Makan , Shyama , New Delhi , No.20 Madras Mail , Kottayam Kunjachan , Indrajaalam , Akashadoothu , Palayam , and F.I.R. . He also directed five films, including Manu Uncle, which won the National Film Award for Best Children's Film in 1988 and the Kerala State Film Award for the Best Children's Film in 1989.  Early life  Dennis was born on 20 October 1957 in Ettumanoor, Kottayam district to M. L. Joseph and Eliyamma Joseph. His father worked in the Indian Air Force, while his mother worked as a local teacher. However, he was also born into a film-making family, being a nephew of actors Jose Prakash, Prem Prakash and cousins with bobby-sanjay. He was also the nephew to Francis, who would go on to be a producer of the 1974 film Shapamoksham. He attended the Ettumanoor Government High School, followed by Deva Matha...
Urai is a rural locality in Asovskoye Rural Settlement, Beryozovsky District, Perm Krai, Russia. The population was 35 as of 2010. There is 1 street.  Geography  Urai is located on the Asovka River, 28 km southeast of Beryozovka by road. Asovo is the nearest rural locality.  References 
Central Stadium was a multi-purpose stadium in Tbilisi, Georgia. Its official name between 1937 and 1953 was the Beria Dinamo Stadium which it was named in honor of Lavrentiy Beria. It was the home ground of the Dinamo Tbilisi until the current Boris Paichadze Dinamo Arena opened in 1976. The stadium held 35,000 spectators.  References   External links  Stadium information
This is a list of local nature reserves in Scotland. Aberlady Bay Ardeer Quarry Ardersier Common Arnhall Moss Backmuir Woods Balquhidderock Wood Birnie and Gaddon Lochs Bingham's Pond Bishop Loch Blantyre, Bothwell and Uddingston Bonnyfield Nature Park Braedale Hill Broughty Ferry Brownsburn Burdiehouse Burn Valley Park Cadzow Glen Cambusnethan Woodland Cammo Estate Cardowan Moss Carron Dams Castle and Hightae Lochs Castlemilk Woodlands Cathkin Braes Catrine Voes and Woodlands Cleddans Burn Commonhead Moss Corstorphine Hill Coul Den Coves Community Park Cranhill Park Croftfoot Cullaloe Dalbeath Marsh Dams to Darnley Dawsholm Park Den of Maidencraig Donmouth Duchess Wood Dumbreck Marsh Durrockstock Park Easter Craiglockhart Hill Early Braes Easter Inch Moss and Seafield Law Eden Estuary Fernbrae Meadows Festival Park Findhorn Bay Garscadden Burn Garscadden Wood Gartcosh Gartmorn Dam Gillingshill Reservoir Greenhall, Millheugh  Barnhill Greenhead Moss and Perchy Pond Hamilton Low Parks Hamiltonhill Claypits Happy Valley Hermitage of Braid  Blackford Hill Hogganfield Park Holmhills Wood Community Park Holy Loch Hurlet Hill Inner Tay Estuary James Hamilton Heritage Park Jenny's Well...
The 2022 Jabal al-Bishr clashes were a set of clashes that took place in the Jabal al-Bishr highland area on the border of the Deir ez-Zor Governorate, Raqqa Governorate and Homs Governorates between forces of the Syrian Government and the Islamic State. The attacks came after the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported on a large grouping of Islamic State fighters in the Palmyra desert on 9 June.  The clashes  On 20 June, 11 Syrian government soldiers and two bus drivers were killed in an ambush by ISIS militants, targeting Syrian Army buses transporting soldiers on the highway in the Al-Jira area. The Islamic State later claimed responsibility for this attack. On 21 June, three Syrian government soldiers were killed and three others were injured after IS fighters attacked a temporary military outpost in the Jabal Al-Bishri desert on the administrative boundary between Raqqa and Deir az-Zour provinces in northeastern Syria under the cover of a sandstorm. On 22 June, late in the day, clashes began between government and IS forces in the Jabal Al-Bishri desert, following aerial bombardment in the area by Russian warplanes, targeting IS positions. These clashes continued...
Dashtserengiin Saintsetseg Mongolian:   born September 19, 1990, in Erdenet is a Mongolian swimmer who specialized in sprint freestyle events. Dashtseren represented Mongolia at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, and competed in the women's 50 m freestyle event. She swam in the fourth heat of the competition, finishing in fifth place, with a time of 29.63 seconds. Dashtseren, placed sixty-seventh in the overall rankings and failed to progress to the semi-finals.  References   External links  Dashtserengiin Saintsetseg at World Aquatics Dashtserengiin Saintsetseg at SwimRankings.net Dashtserengiin Saintsetseg at Olympics.com Dashtserengiin Saintsetseg at Olympedia Dashtserengiin Saintsetseg at InterSportStats NBC Olympics Profile
John German is an American physicist who is the US co-lead of the International Council on Clean Transportation . In that role, his research helped uncover the Volkswagen emissions scandal of 2015. German was investigating what he thought would be relatively clean diesel emissions in US cars, where standards are more strict than in Europe. The hope was to eventually improve the diesel emissions of European vehicles. After the results were published, which showed VW nitric oxide emissions were exceeding US standards by as much as 35 times, further work uncovered a VW defeat device. In light of the discovery and scandal, German recommends that other car manufacturers be investigated for installing potential defeat devices. German has a degree in physics from the University of Michigan, is married, and makes what The Guardian called a modest salary in his role at the ICCT.  Notes   References   External links  ICCT profile
The gymnastics competitions at the 2021 SEA Games took place at Qun Nga Sports Palace in Hanoi, Vietnam from 13 to 22 May 2022.  Schedule  The following is the schedule for the gymnastics competitions. All times in UTC07:00. Artistic Friday, 13 May 10:00-18:30 - Men's team and all-around finals Saturday, 14 May 10:00-18:30 - Women's team and all-around finals Sunday, 15 May 14:00-17:00 - Men's floor exercise, pommel horse, and still rings and women's vault and uneven bars apparatus finals Monday, 16 May 14:00-17:00 - Men's vault, parallel bars, and high bar and women's balance beam and floor exercise apparatus finals  Medal summary   Host nation  Medalists   Aerobic   Artistic   Men   Women   Rhythmic   References 
Zajkov is a municipality and village in Pelhimov District in the Vysoina Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 200 inhabitants.  Administrative division  Zajkov consists of two municipal parts in brackets population according to the 2021 census: Zajkov Rovn  Etymology  The name is derived from the personal name Zajek, meaning Zajek's.  Geography  Zajkov is located about 6 kilometres south of Pelhimov and 23 km west of Jihlava. It lies in the Kemenk Highlands. The highest point is at 650 m above sea level. The Podlesnk Stream flows through the municipality and supplies here a system of several small fishponds.  History  The first written mention of Zajkov is from 1203.  Demographics   Transport  Zajkov is located on the railway line Jihlava-Tbor.  Sights  There are no protected cultural monuments in the municipality.  References   External links  Official website
The ballet boot is a contemporary style of fetish footwear that merges the look of the pointe shoe with a high heel. The idea is to restrict the wearer's feet almost en pointe, like those of a ballerina, with the aid of long, slender heels . When upright, the feet are held nearly vertical by the shoe, thus putting nearly all of the body's weight on the tips of the toes. However, a properly tight fit will hold the shoe to the wearer's instep and heel, thereby reducing the weight on the wearer's toes.  Construction  The heel height is usually 7 inches or more - it is as long as possible, so that the wearer's foot are fully pointedextended in the shoe any longer would prohibit standing or would require a platform. The boots may rise to any height on the leg. The knee-high and thigh-high versions may also have zippers to allow them to be donned and doffed more easily. The thigh-high versions may be designed to stop the leg being bent at the knee, further restricting mobility. There are also ballet shoe designs, including sandals, mules, and Mary Janes, many of which have buckles. Some styles are equipped with supports...
Elizabeth Anne Allen is an American former actress. She is best known for her recurring role as the witch Amy Madison on the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  Career  Allen began working professionally as an actress in the early 1990s and has worked in guest and recurring roles on various television series, including Doogie Howser, M.D. and Silk Stalkings. She also had a recurring role in the T.V. series Bull, playing the character Pam Boyd. Her film credits have included roles in Timemaster , Illegal in Blue , and the controversial Silent Lies .  Buffy the Vampire Slayer  Allen won the recurring role of Amy Madison on Buffy the Vampire Slayer for the season one episode Witch. She returned in the second season's Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered, the season three episode Gingerbread, and season four's Something Blue, in a brief, non-speaking cameo. She returned for a three-episode guest arc in the season six episodes Smashed, Wrecked, and Doublemeat Palace. She made her final appearance on Buffy in the season seven episode The Killer in Me. Her last credited acting role was in the 2007 episode...
Notoziphius is an extinct genus of beaked whale from the Late Miocene of Patagonia, Argentina. The type and only species is N. bruneti, which was named in 2013 by Mnica Buono and Mario Cozzuol based on a well-preserved skull and partial dentaries.  Classification  In phylogenetic analyses, Notoziphius is usually recovered as part of or close to a basal ziphiid clade that also includes genera like Messapicetus, Aporotus and Beneziphius. In their description of the type material, Buono and Cozzuol recovered Notoziphius in a polytomy with the three aforementioned genera and Ziphirostrum. In their analysis, this group represents the earliest branch of Ziphiidae, and thus the most basal. The clade was given the name Messapicetiformes in a 2024 study by Bianucci and colleagues, and their analysis also yielded a more well-resolved phylogenetic tree. Here, Ninoziphius is the most basal member of Ziphiidae, followed by Notoziphius and the Messapicetiformes. When compared to the composition seen in the paper by Buono and Cozzuol, Notoziphius lands on the same branch as, but just outside of the clade. Both resulting trees for Ziphiidae are reproduced below, with the 2013 tree at left and...
The unified system of education in the Second Polish Republic was attempted in 1920, later superseded by the Jdrzejewicz reform, named after Janusz Jdrzejewicz, approved by the Sejm in 1932. The resulting system was in force essentially until 1948, when it was superseded by the Communist system of education in the Polish People's Republic. The Jdrzejewicz reform received controversial recognition. On one hand, it introduced compulsory education and unified credentials of various schools at their relative educational levels. On the other hand, it introduced a considerable degree of interference of the state into issues of academic freedom.  Background  At the moment of the regaining of the independence by Poland in 1918 and the establishment of the Second Polish Republic, its system of education was in disarray, mainly due to more than a century of partitions of Poland by Austria-Hungary, the German, and the Russian Empires.  Jdrzejewicz reform  The education reform was approved by the Sejm on March 11, 1932 On March 15, 1933 the reform was extended to encompass the higher education.  References 
Balyakalasakhi Malayalam:  transl. Childhood Companion is a Malayalam romantic tragedy novel written by Vaikom Muhammad Basheer. Published in 1944, it is considered by many as Basheer's best work. The story revolves around Majeed and Suhra, who have been in love with each other since their childhood. By Basheer's own admission, the story is largely autobiographical.  Plot summary  The childhood romance between the two neighbours blossoms into passionate love during adolescence. Majeed's father was rich once, so could send him to a school in a distant town, although he was not very good at studies. Suhra's father on the other hand had trouble making ends meet. Even then he wanted to send his daughter, who was good at studies to school. But after her father's death, all her hopes of further studies was ruined. Majeed begs his father to sponsor Suhra's education, but he refuses. Majeed leaves home after a skirmish with his father, and wanders over distant lands for a long time before returning home. On his return, he finds that his family's former affluence is all gone, and that his beloved Suhra has married someone else. He is grief struck at the loss of love, and this...
The name Greg has been used for eleven tropical cyclones worldwide: eight in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, two in the Australian region, and one in the Western Pacific. In the Eastern Pacific: Hurricane Greg - churned in the open ocean Hurricane Greg - paralleled the Mexican coast while remaining far offshore Hurricane Greg - formed from the remnants of Atlantic Tropical Storm Bret Hurricane Greg - made landfall in Baja California Sur Tropical Storm Greg - short-lived storm that remained well offshore Hurricane Greg - stayed out to sea Tropical Storm Greg - churned in the open ocean Tropical Storm Greg - formed before crossing into the Central Pacific In the Australian region: Cyclone Greg - developed in the Gulf of Carpentaria Cyclone Greg - developed north-east of the Cocos Islands In the Western Pacific: Tropical Storm Greg - made landfall on northern Borneo in the Malaysian state of Sabah, causing over 280 million in damage and 238 deaths
Antipodochlora is a genus of dragonfly in the family Corduliidae. It contains the following species: Antipodochlora braueri - Dusk dragonfly  References  Rowe, R. . Antipodochlora braueri. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 2020 e.T1781A83378420. doi:10.2305IUCN.UK.2020-1.RLTS.T1781A83378420.en. Retrieved 16 November 2021.
Sport 7 was a Dutch commercial television channel of the KNVB for the broadcasting of live football. John de Mol Jr., Philips, KPN, De Telegraaf and Nuon were shareholders. The channel didn't attract many viewers. Some cable companies refused to add Sport 7. Moreover, the audience had little interest in watching football on Sport 7 because the highlights of the Eredivisie were still being broadcast through public broadcaster NOS. The channel closed within four months after launch, on 8 December 1996.  References 
Tennis is a racket sport that is played either individually against a single opponent or between two teams of two players each . Each player uses a tennis racket strung with a cord to strike a hollow rubber ball covered with felt over or around a net and into the opponent's court. The objective is to manoeuvre the ball in such a way that the opponent is not able to play a valid return. If a player is unable to return the ball successfully, the opponent scores a point. Tennis can be played by anyone who can hold a racket, including wheelchair users and those who are blind or with low vision, and is played by people at every level of society and across all ages. The original forms of tennis developed in France during the late Middle Ages. The modern form of tennis originated in Birmingham, England, in the late 19th century as lawn tennis. It had close connections to various field games such as croquet and bowls as well as to the older racket sport today called real tennis. The rules of modern tennis have changed little since the 1890s. The two exceptions are the server needing to have one foot on the ground at all times prior to 1961, and the adoption of the...
Optus Sport was an Australian group of sports channels, owned by Optus launched on 13 July 2016. Optus created the service after it outbid Foxtel for the English Premier League broadcasting rights in Australia. It was the main broadcaster of non-Australian soccer in Australia, broadcasting the English Premier League, FA Cup, J.League, K League, UEFA international matches and the Women's Super League. On 30 June 2025, Optus announced it had accepted an offer from Nine Entertainment to assign Optus Sport's remaining football rights to Stan Sport, with Optus Sport to cease operations on 1 August 2025. Media coverage put the value of the transaction at about A300 million. Until 1 August 2025, Optus Sport was available for streaming via web browsers, the Optus Sport app on compatible smartphones and tablets including iOS and Android. It was also available through apps on selected smart TVs and video game consoles such as PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 and box One.  History  In the beginning of Optus Television, Optus had used sports rights as a key differentiator between it and rival Foxtel. They carried C7 Sport on their subscription television network until March 2002...
Motorsport are sporting events, competitions and related activities that primarily involve the use of automobiles, motorcycles, motorboats and powered aircraft. For each of these vehicle types, the more specific terms automobile sport, motorcycle sport, power boating and air sports may be used commonly, or officially by organisers and governing bodies. Different manifestations of motorsport with their own objectives and specific rules are called disciplines. Examples include circuit racing, rallying and trials. Governing bodies, also called sanctioning bodies, often have general rules for each discipline, but allow supplementary rules to define the character of a particular competition, series or championship. Groups of these are often categorised informally, such as by vehicle type, surface type or propulsion method. Examples of categories within a discipline are formula racing, stock car racing, touring car racing, sports car racing, etc.  History  The first prearranged match race of two self-powered road vehicles over a prescribed route occurred in the north west of England at 4:30 A.M. on August 30, 1867, between Ashton-under-Lyne and...
The KDSport 900 is a soviet sports car manufactured in small numbers between 1963 and 1969 by a group of NAMI employees. The Sport-900 is a 2 seat coupe with a fiberglass body powered by a 0.9L 4 cylinder engine derived from the ZAZ-965A which gave the car a top speed of 120 Kmh.  References 
M4 Sport is a Hungarian terrestrial television channel owned and operated by Hungarian Radio and Television since 2026. On this channel, events of the 16 prominent Hungarian sports are carried, as well as international sports events, events featuring outstanding Hungarian athletes, and the broadcast of their competitions and championships. All of this includes self-produced shows. M4 Sport provides approximately 10 hours of live sports broadcasting per day. On 18 July 2020, on the channel's fifth birthday, it was announced that a new channel called 'M4 Sport would be launched from 12 September. For the time being, the new channel can only be viewed for a limited time, on weekends between 14:00 and 22:00 in the time slot shared with Duna World, not only in Europe, but also in those parts of the world where Duna World's programs are broadcast to Hungarians abroad. The terrestrial coverage of the channel is 99.6 of Hungary's territory. In 2022, the channel had an audience share of 2,7. The channel's advertising time is sold by Atmedia.  History and technical data  Based on the amended Media Act, service providers were obliged to transmit the subscription-free M4 Sport as of 1...
Speed Sport, formerly the National Speed Sport News , is an American magazine and website covering national, local, and regional auto racing topics. Yahoo! News called it one of the most famous motorsports publications in the country when it stopped publishing the traditional weekly print version in 2011. The New York Times said it has carried news and, when available, photos, from virtually any dirt track open on a Saturday night. National Speed Sport News began during the Great Depression as a weekly print newspaper. Chris Economaki published the newspaper for forty years. It was published exclusively on the magazine's website for a year before being purchased by its current owners in 2012 along with an accompanying monthly magazine, which became known as Speed Sport.  History  The newspaper was first published by East Paterson Herald Publishing Co. on August 16, 1934, as the National Auto Racing News. Future editor Chris Economaki sold some of the first copies at Ho-Ho-Kus Speedway. He started writing a column in 1936. It held the first national auto racing convention in New York in 1940. It became known as the National Speed Sport News in 1943 when the publisher William...
A sports film is a film genre in which any particular sport plays a prominent role in the film's plot or acts as its central theme. It is a production in which a sport or a sports-related topic is prominently featured or is a focus of the plot. Despite this, sport is ultimately rarely the central concern of such films and sport performs primarily an allegorical role. Furthermore, sports fans are not necessarily the target demographic in such movies, but sports fans tend to maintain a high following and esteem for such movies.  Early history  Sources disagree on the first sports film. Short reels depicting unscripted matches were publicly shown as early as 1894, while scripted shorts depicting sports were shown by the end of the decade. The first feature-length sports films would not come until later. Many of the earliest sports films are considered lost. The first known sports film was an 1894 reel depicting a boxing match between Michael Leonard and Jack Cushing, released just four months after the first movie house opened. Several other films depicting boxing matches were released in 1894. Some sources report The Ball Game, directed by William Heise and produced and distributed...
Halkapnar Sport Hall is an indoor multi-purpose sport venue that is located in the Halkapnar neighborhood of zmir, Turkey. The hall has a seating capacity of 10,000 spectators.  History  The project of the venue was prepared in 2002. Its construction began in December 2004, and the hall was put into service in June 2005 for the games of 2005 Summer Universiade. Bozolu construction company successfully finished the construction of Halkapnar Sport Hall in six months.  International events hosted  Competitions in gymnastics, basketball, volleyball, and fencing are held in this modern hall. The site hosted the European Seniors Fencing Championship, which was held between July 4 and 9, 2006 in zmir. Volleyball at the 2008 Summer Olympics - Men's European qualification was contested from January 7 to 13, 2008. The arena hosted Pool A, C and E matches of the 2009 Men's European Volleyball Championship. The venue was used for hosting zmir matches of 2010 FIBA World Championship for the matches of Group D. Round-robin matches of 2011 Basketball World Cup were played between August 11-13, 2011.  See also  List of indoor arenas in Turkey ...
A mind sport is a game of skill in which the outcome is determined mainly by intellectual ability rather than physical effort. Mind sports usually require strategic thinking, concentration, memory, logic, pattern recognition, planning, and decision-making. They are often played in competitive settings with formal rules, rankings, governing bodies, and international championships. The term became widely used in the late 20th century, especially after the creation of the Mind Sports Olympiad in 1997, Since then, mind sports have gained broader recognition through organizations such as the International Mind Sports Association , which governs major international competitions in games such as chess, bridge, draughts, go, xiangqi. Mind sports can include board games, card games, abstract strategy games, memory competitions, puzzle solving, and other activities in which mental performance is the primary factor. Chess and contract bridge are among the best known examples and are recognized by the International Olympic Committee as sports. Other activities commonly described as mind sports include go, draughts, poker, mahjong, shogi, xiangqi, renju, Scrabble, speedcubing, and memory sports...
Mikel Arteta Amatriain Basque:  born 26 March 1982 is a Spanish professional football manager and former player who is the manager of Premier League club Arsenal F.C. Arteta played as a midfielder in his playing career. He began his senior club career at FC Barcelona in 1999, but limited playing time led to a loan move to Paris Saint-Germain in 2001, where he won the UEFA Intertoto Cup in his second season. Arteta joined Rangers F.C. in 2002 for 6 million and won the league and league cup in his debut season, scoring a 93rd-minute penalty on the final day. After a brief return to his hometown club Real Sociedad, Arteta signed for Everton in 2005 and was named the club's Player of the Season twice. He joined Arsenal in 2011 for 10 million and won two FA Cups before retiring in 2016. Arteta represented Spain through several youth levels but never played for the senior national team. Arteta was appointed as an assistant coach to Pep Guardiola at Manchester City F.C. in 2016. He returned to Arsenal as manager in 2019 and won the FA Cup in his debut season and their first Premier League title in 22 years in 2026. Arteta has since become Arsenal's seventh-longest...
Fowling is a hybrid game that combines the equipment of American football and bowling into one sport with a similar layout as horseshoes and cornhole. Most commonly played as a pastime in a tailgate or campground setting across the United States, Fowling was founded in 2001 by Chris Hutt. According to an interview with Hutt, the sport originated at an Indianapolis 500 parking lot when a discarded football accidentally knocked over bowling pins and inspired the idea of throwing footballs at the pins as a competitive game. The object of Fowling is for teams to be the first to knock down all opponent's pins by throwing a full-size regulation football at 10 bowling pins positioned in a traditional bowling layout.  Rules  The American Fowling Association has established a set of guidelines in order to govern sanctioned tournament play. All AFA members are expected to comply with the rules and regulations established and any violations or offenses will result in a team forfeiture at the discretion of a judge or official. Players have the option to protest a ruling to an official if they feel a violation has occurred by the opposing team.  Gameplay  Fowling is played one-on...
NRK Sport is a brand name for sports programming produced by the sports department of Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation . The brand name is used on most national sports broadcasts on television, radio and new media. NRK Sport is produced both in Norway and other countries. NRK Sport is also a radio station, which broadcasts sports programming via DAB and the internet in Norwegian.  Programming  The station airs live self-produced commentary of sports events of football matches and where NRK does not have the TV rights, and simulcasted audio from NRK1 if NRK do have the TV rights. As of February 2024, NRK Sport had live broadcasts of, but not limited to: UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League UEFA Women's Champions League Norwegian Football Cup Handball national team tournaments FIS Cross-Country World Cup Initially and for many years afterwards, the station was only on air during sports broadcasts. Eventually, the station began playing mixed-genre music during the downtime, along with the Dagsnytt hourly NRK short newscasts. Rudimentary score updates from ongoing football matches, e.g. from the English Premier League, are occasionally interspersed...
Commonwealth Sport, formerly known as the Commonwealth Games Federation, is the international organisation responsible for the direction and control of the Commonwealth Games and Commonwealth Youth Games, and is the governing body of the Commonwealth Games Associations . It is headquartered in London, England.  History  Due to the success of the first 1930 British Empire Games in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, a meeting of representatives from Great Britain, its dominions, colonies and territories decided that the games, similar to the Olympic Games should be held every four years, and that an authoritative organisation should be formed. Following the 1932 Summer Olympics, it was decided to form the British Empire Games Federation who would be responsible for the organising of the games. The name of the federation was changed in 1952 to the British Empire and Commonwealth Games Federation, and again in Jamaica in 1966 to the British Commonwealth Games Federation, until eventually being changed again in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 1974 to the Commonwealth Games Federation. It would again be changed to simply Commonwealth Sport in 2025. The youth version of the Commonwealth...
Sport Canada is a branch of the Department of Canadian Heritage that develops federal sport policy in Canada, provides funding programs in support of sport, and administers special projects related to sport. Its mission to enhance opportunities for all Canadians to participate and excel in sport. The Government of Canada, through Sport Canada, provides financial support through 3 programs: Athlete Assistance Program, which gives direct financial support to selected national team athletes  the Sport Support Program, which funds Canadian sports organizations  and the Hosting Program, which helps sport organizations to host the Canada Games and international sport events . Sport Canada special projects include research projects projects aimed at increasing participation in sport the Long-Term Athlete Development Model and Podium Canada, consisting of the Own the Podium and Road to Excellence programs, aimed at improving Canada's performance at the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games.  History  In 1961, the Fitness and Amateur Sport Act came into force, whereby the Government of Canada made an official commitment...
A sport kite, also commonly known as a stunt kite, is a type of multiline kite that can be maneuvered in the air. A related kite, also controllable and used for recreation, but capable of generating a significant amount of pull and used for providing movement, is the power kite.  Configuration  One common configuration for a sport kite is a roughly triangular delta shape based on the Rogallo wing, with two lines for control. Another common configuration is a W-shaped panel based on the Hadzicki wing, with four lines for control. These kites are normally constructed from lightweight ripstop nylon or ripstop polyester with spars made from carbon fiber tubing. The flying lines are made from braided ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene, which is light, does not stretch under tension and stays slippery even when wrapped many times. Dual-line sport kites are controlled by the pilot adding and releasing tension on the right and left lines. A pilot may pull on the right-hand line to turn right, pull left-hand line to turn left, pull equally for straight flight, push the left-hand line to release air and turn right, and so on. The pitch can be controlled by walkingrunning forward...
Sport Loreto is a local football institution located in Pucallpa, Peru. It was founded in 1939, and it will start playing in the first professional division in 2015. After the championship in Copa Peru 2014. Football is the most played sport, although there are other local sport as Volleyball that also participates in the National Championships. Another sport being played is Basketball. Football is being played at the local stadium Aliardo Soria.  History   Foundation  Sport Loreto was founded in the city of Pucallpa on September 3, 1939, by a group of young men from Atahualpa Street. The club's first president was Visitacin Ros, and its first headquarters was located at his residence on the corner of Atahualpa and Raimondi streets.  Copa Per Title and Promotion to the First Division  Sport Loreto won the 2014 Copa Per title after defeating Unin Fuerza Minera 4-1 in the first leg played in Pucallpa on December 15, 2014. In the return leg, played in Juliaca, Sport Loreto lost 1-0, but secured the championship on aggregate. The achievement marked the return of a club from Pucallpa to the Peruvian Primera Divisin after 17 years.  In the First Division  Sport...
Sport 890 is a Uruguayan Spanish-language AM radio station that broadcasts from Montevideo, Uruguay. Sport 890 broadcasts a sports radio format.  References   External links  Facility details for Facility ID 100287 in the FCC Licensing and Management System C18 in Nielsen Audio's AM station database 890 AM
FK eleziarne Podbrezov Slovak pronunciation:  is a Slovak football team, based in the village of Podbrezov.  History  Podbrezov was formed in 1920 as RTJ Podbrezov. The club is also particularly famous for its youth program that has produced many Slovak talents over the years, including Juraj Kucka, Michal Breznank, Rbert Pich, Peter tyvar and Marek Bak. Podbrezov has been cooperating with the Italian club Inter, in a worldwide social project - Inter Campus . Argentine midfielder Pablo Podio, who played for Podbrezov, is a product of the Inter Campus project. Major achievements in the history of the club include: second place in the I. liga in the 20072008 season and the semifinals of the Slovak Cup in the 20012002 season. In 2009-10, the club withdrew from the Slovak First League.  Slovak First Football League promotion  In 2013-14, Podbrezov were promoted to the top flight of Slovak football for the first time in their history. The success was born under the leadership of coach Jaroslav Kento. The keys players were Vratislav Greko, Blaej Vak, Jozef Hank, Michal Pank and others.  Events timeline  1920 - Founded...
The Day's Sport is an oil painting on canvas by the British artist James Ward, from 1826. It combines elements of traditional Dutch genre painting with the more recent British interest in sporting pictures showing hunting scenes. It features a view on a wintry day. However, it possibly suggests Ward's disapproval of the near indiscriminate slaughter of animals, particularly birds by the hunting party. The picture was displayed at the Royal Academy Exhibition of 1827 held at Somerset House in London. It is now in the Yale Center for British Art in New aven as part of the Paul Mellon Collection.  References   Bibliography  Beckett, Oliver. The Life and Work of James Ward, R.A., 1769-1859: The Forgotten Genius. Book Guild, 1995. Colls, Robert. This Sporting Life: Sport and Liberty in England, 1760-1960. Oxford University Press, 2020. Fussell, George Edwin. James Ward R.A.: Animal Painter, 1769-1859, and His England. Michael Joseph, 1974. Walker, Stella A. Sporting Art: England 1700-1900. Studio Vista, 1972.
Beyond Sport is a UK-registered global foundation, having the role of promoting sustainable social change through sports. Over the past 14 years, the Foundation has given out grants totaling 6.7 million and supported over 490 projects in 150 countries. Its support has gone to a diverse range of organizations and individuals using sports ranging from yoga to martial arts to football to tackle social issues head-on. It works in partnership with other organizations including NBA, ESPN, Comic Relief, Sport England, The North Face, Unilever, MLB, MLS, NHL, and UK Sport. It has a global Board of Directors and a Youth Advisory Board.  Board members  Board of directors: - Jean Afterman, Senior Vice President and Assistant General Manager, The New York Yankees - David Becker, International Sports and Entertainment Lawyer - Alexandra Chalat, Executive Director, Partnerships and Strategic Alignment - Qatar Foundation - John Gleasure, Non-Executive Director - Nick Keller, Founder and Chair, Beyond Sport - Kely Nascimento, Founder and CEO, The Impact GameDocumentary filmmaker - Melissa Potter, Executive Director, Content for Change and Vice President, Strategy and Impact - Paramount...
Harrod Sport is a British manufacturer of sporting equipment and netting based in Lowestoft, Suffolk. It is a family-run business founded in 1954 by the current chairman Ron Harrod, who converted fishing nets in to gardening and agricultural netting. The association with sports began when Harrod Sport was approached to produce a pair of football nets and the accompanying football posts.  History  Ron Harrod founded Harrod Sport in 1954 following an initial investment of 300. This was used to purchase and then transform fishing nets in to gardening and agricultural netting. The year of 1954 ended with a successful 5000 turnover and Harrod Sport Ltd was established. In 1957, Harrod Sport produced its first pair of football nets following a request from a local school teacher. This in 1959, Harrod Sport teamed up with local tradesmen to produce its first wooden and steel goals. This resulted in Harrod Sport selling six sets in the first season of manufacturing. In 1963, Harrod Sport purchased its first netting and steel cutting machine. In 1978, a new 16,000 Sq Ft factory was built on the South Lowestoft Industrial Estate . Harrod Sport installed its...
Peace and Sport also known as L'Organisation pour la Paix par le Sport is a sports organization based in Monaco under the patronage of Prince Albert II of Monaco. Ivorian footballer Didier Drogba became the organization's Vice President after retiring from professional football in late 2018. Argentine footballer Lionel Messi is a recipient of Peace and Sport's Champions for Peace Award.  Field actions  Since its creation in 2007, Peace and Sport has developed 12 field programs in 13 countries. The organization works with local project leaders governments, NGOs, National Olympic Committees, and sports federations in areas affected by extreme poverty, the consequences of conflicts, and an absence of social cohesion. These partnerships aim to develop programs that use sport to address social issues within communities. As of 2018, Peace and Sport actively runs four programs in three locations: the African Great Lakes region, Za'atari Refugee Camp in Jordan and France. These programs include: The Friendship Games, an annual multi-sport event with peace-building activities that gathers youth from Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Burundi. The Live Together program...
Sport Extra is a Romanian sports television, launched on 2 March 2020. It primarily focuses on combat sports and motorsport, but also broadcasts football, basketball, water polo, cycling, and other sports. The channel's main sports broadcasts include kickboxing competitions such as Colosseum Tournament, Dynamite Fighting Show, GLORY, KO Masters, ONE Championship, WGP, and WLF mixed martial arts promotions including Bellator MMA, Lux Fight League, RF, UAE Warriors, and UCMMA as well as professional wrestling through AEW Dynamite. Sport Extra also broadcasts motorsport competitions, including the IndyCar Series, NASCAR, and DTM.  Sport competitions   Aquatics  LEN Champions League  Basketball  Copa del Rey de Baloncesto Liga ACB LNB Pro A Supercopa de Espaa de Baloncesto  Cycling  Giro Donne Tour of Romania  Darts  Campionatul Naional de Darts WDF World Cup  Football  Eredivisie Saudi Professional League Saudi Super Cup Serie B  Ice hockey  National League  Martial Arts  One Championship Professional Fighters League Boxxer Dynamite Fighting Show KO Masters Ultimate Fighting Tournament Senshi Queensberry  Motor sport... 
Sport Press was a daily sports newspaper in Macedonia, now known as North Macedonia. The first issue of Sport Press was published on November 18, 2009. The main editor was Robert Aleksoski. It was published every day except Sunday. Its price was 15 denari. The newspaper ceased publication with its last issue on April 20, 2010 due to financial problems. A total of 125 issues were published.  Editorial staff  Editor in chief Robert Aleksoski - main editor Emil Kitanoski - editor Laste Dimitrievski - assistant editor Journalists Vojislav Mojsovski - domestic football Samoil Petreski - domestic and foreign basketball Dragan Jovanov - domestic and foreign basketball Dragan Vidinikj - other domestic sports Ljubisha Vladimirov - international football , F1, other international sports Filip Zdraveski - international football , ice hockey , other international sports Milosh Denkovski - international football , other international sports Fidan Kominovski - handball Proofreading Svetlana Arsovska  References 
The concept of international sport refers to sport when the participants represent at least two nations. The most well-known international sports event is the Olympic Games. Other examples include the FIFA World Cup and the Cricket World Cup. The cricket match played between the United States and Canada in 1844 was the first ever international match played in any sport. Modern international sports events have significant political, economical, and other cultural impacts on countries around the world. Especially with the relationship with politics and sports, sports can influence countries' identities and international relations as a result.  History  The ancient Olympic Games were a series of competitions held between representatives of several city-states and kingdoms from Ancient Greece, which featured mainly athletic but also combat and chariot racing events. During the Olympic games, all struggles between the participating city-states were postponed until the games were finished. The origin of the Olympics is shrouded in mystery and legend. During the 19th century, the Olympic Games became a popular global event. The first international competition, between teams from Norway...
Sport is considered a national pastime in Sweden, and about half of the population actively takes part in sports activities. The most important all-embracing organisations for sports in Sweden are the Swedish Sports Confederation, and the Swedish Olympic Committee. In total over 2 million people are members of a sports club. The sports with most participants are football, floorball, equestrian sports, handball, golf, gymnastics and athletics, while the sports with the largest number of television spectators are football, ice hockey, handball, bandy, golf, motor sport and athletics. Ice hockey and football are the main sports. Winter sports are also popular, both in the number of participants and in spectators, while floorball gained popularity in the 1990s amongst participants, spectators grew in the last five years to outnumber other team sports amongst the spectators. Other popular sports include bandy, basketball, orienteering, tennis and table tennis. Popular recreational sports and activities include brnnboll , boule, kubb, skiing, swimming, gymnastics, walking, running, cycling, dancing...
Sport is an important part of Greenlandic culture, as the population is generally quite active. The main traditional sport in Greenland is Arctic sports. Popular sports include association football, track and field, badminton, handball, golf, and skiing. Handball is often referred to as the national sport, and Greenland's men's national team was ranked among the top 20 in the world in 2001. Greenland has excellent conditions for skiing, cross country skiing, kayaking, fishing, snowboarding, ice climbing, ice skating, and rock climbing, although mountain climbing, mountain biking, and hiking are preferred by the general public. Although the country's environment is generally ill-suited for golf, there are nevertheless golf courses on the island. Greenland hosted a biennial international, the world's largest multisport and cultural event for young people of the Arctic, for the second time in 2016. Golf in Greenland is mostly played on gravel and sand, but also on grass or on simulators in the wintertime.  Football  The Football Association of Greenland Kalaallit Nunaanni Arsaattartut Kattuffia, has a national football team but is not yet a member of FIFA because of ongoing disagreements...
There are at least four main types of competitive pigeon sport: Pigeon racing Tumbling Highflying Tippler Though not quite a sport, fancy breeds of pigeons are also bred to standards and judged in a competitive fashion. Levi in his book The Pigeon describes all aspects of pigeon keeping. For exhibition purposes sport pigeons are sometimes grouped as FlyingSporting Pigeons.  References  Levi, Wendell . The Pigeon. Sumter, S.C.: Levi Publishing Co, Inc. ISBN 0-85390-013-2.  See also  Birmingham Roller List of pigeon breeds
Jamie Richard Vardy is an English professional footballer who plays as a striker for EFL Championship club Burnley. After being released by Sheffield Wednesday at age 16, Vardy began his senior career with Stocksbridge Park Steels. He broke into the first team in 2007 and spent three seasons there before joining Northern Premier League Premier Division club FC Halifax Town in 2010. Scoring 25 goals in his debut season, he won the club's Players' Player of the Year award and then moved to Conference Premier club Fleetwood Town in August 2011 for an undisclosed fee. He scored 31 league goals in his first season at his new team, winning the team's Player of the Year award as they won the division. Vardy signed for Leicester City in the Championship in May 2012 for a non-League record transfer fee of 1 million and helped the team win the Championship in 2014. In the 2015-16 Premier League season, he scored in 11 consecutive Premier League matches, breaking Ruud van Nistelrooy's record, and was voted the Premier League Player of the Season and FWA Footballer of the Year as underdogs Leicester won the title. He won the Premier League Golden Boot for the 2019...
Khuru is a traditional Bhutanese dart sport. Unlike archery, khuru is simple and affordable, requiring no more than a pair of darts and a target. Khuru is played on holidays and other special events all around the nation and is just as popular as archery. The distance between two targets is 35 metres for men and 27 metres for women, according to the Bhutan Indigenous Games and Sports Association. A cultural shift in Bhutan has led to the participation of women in khuru tournaments.  Rules  The Bhutan Indigenous Games and Sports Association was established with the goal of promoting traditional Bhutanese games and sports. The organization has a web page for the rules of khuru, but as of 2025 that page is empty.  See also  Archery in Bhutan Sports in Bhutan  References   External links  Khuru  Why Bhutan's Traditional Sport is growing in popularity  Trans World Sport
Sport in Croatia has significant role in Croatian culture, and many local sports clubs as well as the Croatian national squads enjoy strong followings in the country. The most enduring sport by far in Croatia is football, and is played on amateur and professional levels amongst all age groups across the entire country. Several other major team sports are handball, basketball and water polo, with clubs in all parts of Croatia. Ice hockey is another popular team sport, namely in the Croatian interior. The most popular individual sports in Croatia are tennis, alpine skiing, and swimming, and to some extent table tennis and chess. Various amateur sport games are popular in Croatia, notably picigin.  History  Franjo Buar is widely considered to be the father of modern Croatian sport. He founded the Croatian Sports Association in 1909 within what was then the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Buar introduced a multitude of mainstream sports in Croatia, such as football, alpine skiing, ice skating and ice hockey, as well as gymnastics and fencing. The Franjo Buar State Award for Sport, the Republic of Croatia's highest award in the development of sport...
In professional sports, scouts are experienced talent evaluators who travel extensively for the purposes of watching athletes play their chosen sports, and they determine whether their set of skills and talents represent what is needed by the scout's organization. Some scouts are interested primarily in the selection of prospects younger players who may require further development by the acquiring team, but who are judged to be worthy of that effort and expense for the potential future payoff that it could bring, while others concentrate on players who are already polished professionals, whose rights may be available soon, either through free agency or trading, and who are seen as filling a team's specific need at a certain position. Advance scouts watch the teams that their teams are going to play in order to help determine strategy. Many scouts are former coaches or retired players, while others have made a career just of being scouts. Skilled scouts who help to determine which players will fit in well with an organization can be the major difference between success and failure for the team with regard to wins and losses, which often relates directly to the organization's financial...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 886 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
This is a list of notable peer-reviewed academic journals that publish research in the field of artificial intelligence , including areas such as machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, robotics, and intelligent systems.  General artificial intelligence  Artificial Intelligence - Elsevier Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research - AI Access Foundation Knowledge-Based Systems - Elsevier  Machine learning  Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery - Springer Machine Learning - Springer Journal of Machine Learning Research - Microtome Pattern Recognition - Elsevier Neural Networks - Elsevier Neural Computation - MIT Press Neurocomputing - Elsevier  Deep learning and neural computation  IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation - IEEE IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems - IEEE Nature Machine Intelligence - Springer Nature  Computer vision  International Journal of Computer Vision - Springer IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence - IEEE Machine Vision and Applications - Springer  Natural language processing  Computational Linguistics...
Jaromr Hanzlk is a Czech actor.  Selected filmography   Film  Coach to Vienna Romance for Bugle Maratn Slasti Otce vlasti The Joke A Night at Karlstein How to Drown Dr. Mracek, the Lawyer Lto s kovbojem The Ninth Heart Cutting It Short The Snowdrop Festival The End of Old Times Men in Rut Gangster Ka  Television  Takov normln rodinka Byl jednou jeden dm ena za pultem Plechov kavalrie Sanitka Cirkus Humberto Tajemstv rodu  Other notable appearances  In 1980, he portrayed Johannes Kepler in Harmony of the Worlds, the third episode of Carl Sagan's 1980 Cosmos TV series. His name appears in the end credits.  References   External links  Jaromr Hanzlk at IMDb
The Old Dauphin Way Historic District is a historic district in the city of Mobile, Alabama, United States. It was named for Dauphin Way, now known as Dauphin Street, which bisects the center of the district from east to west. The district is roughly bounded by Broad Street on the east, Springhill Avenue on the north, Government Street on the south, and Houston Avenue on the west. Covering 766 acres and containing 1466 contributing buildings, Old Dauphin Way is the largest historic district in Mobile. Although most of the district contains working-class frame houses, large and ornate mansions are found along the main thoroughfares. The contributing buildings range in age from the mid-19th to the early 20th century. Architectural styles include Greek Revival, Gothic Revival, Italianate, Queen Anne, Colonial Revival, Tudor Revival, and American Foursquare.  History  The Old Dauphin Way District is situated on portions of what was once the Price and Espejo tracts, early Spanish land grants to the west of colonial Mobile. The area began to first be developed during the 1830s and 1840s. This early development mostly comprised residential estates along the roads leading...
This is a list of alleged sightings of unidentified flying objects or UFOs in Italy.  100 BC  A record from ancient Rome details reports of an alleged object above Tarquinia: When C. Murius and L. Valerius were consuls, in Tarquinia towards sunset, a round object, like a globe, a round or circular shield, took its path in the sky from west to east.  91 BC  Another record from ancient Rome recounts a sighting on the island of Aenariae: At Aenariae, while Livius Troso was promulgating the laws at the beginning of the Italian war, at sunrise, there came a terrific noise in the sky, and a globe of fire appeared burning in the north. In the territory of Spoletum, a globe of fire, of golden colour, fell to the earth, gyrating. It then seemed to increase in size, rose from the earth and ascended into the sky, where it obscured the sun with its brilliance. It revolved toward the eastern quadrant of the sky.  43 BC  Julius Obsequens wrote another account of an apparent aerial anomaly in ancient Rome: something like a sort of weapon, or missile, rose with a great noise from the earth and soared into the sky.  1933  In 2000, Roberto Pinotti published material regarding...
The 2011 Super League Grand Final was the 14th official Grand Final and the championship-deciding game of the Super League VI season. It was held on Saturday, 8 October at Manchester, England's Old Trafford stadium. The match was contested by St. Helens and the Leeds Rhinos, who last faced each other in a grand final in 2009. British rock band Feeder were due to provide the pre-match music entertainment, only for their show to be called off due to the pitch being wet and Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson not allowing a stage to be built on the pitch. Leeds won the game by 32 points to 16.  Background  St Helens had finished the regular season in 3rd place with 37 points while Leeds had finished 5th with 31 points.  Route to the Final   St Helens   Leeds Rhinos   Match details   World Club Challenge  The World Club Challenge was set to take place between the winner of the Super League Grand Final, Leeds Rhinos and the winner of the NRL Grand Final, Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles on 17 February 2012, at Headingley Carnegie Stadium.  References   External links  Official Site
Saint Privat is a music project conceived by producer Klaus Waldeck and singer Valrie Sajdik in 2004. Inspired by classic Italian and French film music, Saint Privat has released three albums Riviera, 2004 Superflu, 2006 Aprs la Bohme, 2023. Both Sajdik and Waldeck had notable musical careers before they met at a wedding in Vienna. Waldeck had already scored international attention with his early Trip hop and Downtempo productions having shelved his legal career for his musical pursuits. Acting as musical Hitchcock, Waldeck acts as composer, arranger, and producer on Saint Privat releases, making only rare appearances as a performer on keys and electronic effects. Sajdik finished her law degree in Paris in 2000, having graduated from music conservatory in Vienna and her girl band, C-Bra, had fallen apart. Getting exhausted with the French capital, she relocated to Saint-Privat, a small hamlet in the southern region Occitania which was just becoming attractive for bohemians, artists, recovering drug users, and enterprising homemakers. Local hearsay claims that George Harrison and members of Pink Floyd stayed for some time in the community. Novelist and screenwriter Ian McEwan...
Aeimnestus is an Ancient Greek word, also spelled aemnstos and armnstos that means unforgettable, literally of everlasting memory. It was the name of multiple revered Greek warriors. A Spartan soldier Aeimnestus killed the Persian general Mardonius by crushing Mardonius' head with a rock during the Battle of Plataea in 479 BC. The event was described in Book 9 of the Histories of Herodotus. Plutarch calls the same man Arimnestus . Another Spartan by the same name led three hundred men against the whole Messenian army in the Messenian Wars both he and his company were killed to the last man. A Plataean general Arimnestos led his city's host in the battles of Marathon and Plataea.  Notes  This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed. . Aeimnestus. Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology.
Yuka Ichiguchi is a Japanese softball player who plays as an infielder. She helped Japan qualify for the 2020 Summer Olympics.  Playing career  She participated at the 2013 World Cup of Softball and 2018 Women's Softball World Championship. She plays for the Bic Camera Takasaki Bee Queen.  References   External links  Kanagawa, Japan. 6 September 2020. Yuka Ichiguchi Softball WBSC Women's Softball World Championship - Day 8
This list includes properties and districts listed on the National Register of Historic Places in Brunswick County, North Carolina. Click the Map of all coordinates link to the right to view an online map of all properties and districts with latitude and longitude coordinates in the table below.  Current listings   See also  National Register of Historic Places listings in North Carolina List of National Historic Landmarks in North Carolina United States Coast Guard History and Heritage Sites  References 
Mossiface railway station and siding was opened on Monday 10 April 1916 as part of the Orbost railway line. The station has long since closed, with the last train passing the site in 1987. The former station grounds have been preserved, and are surrounded by the small Mossiface township consisting of a few houses, farms, and facilities, including some historic hop kilns. The site overlooks the Tambo River flats, which are used as productive grazing farmland. A station name board exists at the site as part of the East Gippsland Rail Trail, which follows the route of the former rail line.  References 
The 2020 Boise State Broncos football team represented Boise State University during the 2020 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The Broncos played their home games at Albertsons Stadium in Boise, Idaho, as members of the Mountain West Conference. They were led by seventh-year head coach Bryan Harsin. After the season was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic, then reinstated, the Broncos played seven games, compiling a 5-2 record . The team then lost to San Jose State in the Mountain West Championship Game. On December 20, the team announced that it had decided to forgo playing in any bowl game. The program had appeared in 18 consecutive bowl games, dating back to the 2002 Humanitarian Bowl. On December 22, head coach Bryan Harsin resigned to become the head coach at Auburn. He finished at Boise State with a seven-year record of 69-19.  Schedule  Boise State announced its 2020 football schedule on February 27, 2020. The 2020 schedule consisted of 7 home and 5 away games in the regular season. On August 10, 2020, the Mountain West Conference announced the suspension of the football season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The new schedule was released by the...
Gus's Cafe was a caf located in Civic, Canberra, Australia. It opened in 1969 and later became the first outdoor pavement cafe in Canberra. It was one of the oldest and best known cafes in Canberra and one of the first European-style cafes in Australia. It had both outdoor and indoor dining areas. The cafe closed in January 2024, but is intended to be re-opened in several years. It will be at the base of the Garema Place Hotel, which will occupy the caf's original space.  History  The cafe was established by Augustin 'Gus' Petersilka who emigrated to Australia from Austria in 1951 and arrived in Canberra in 1962. Petersilka had difficulties with introducing this new style of dining to Canberra as it was against the regulations of the time for people to sit outside in a cafe or restaurant, and he had several well-publicised clashes with bureaucrats. A plaque in the pavement on Bunda Street outside the original Gus's cafe marks the occasion of Gus Petersilka being made the Canberran of the Year for 1978. It reads: Gus epitomised the emerging soul of Canberra. His constant representations on behalf of the people of the city produced the establishment...
Lee Heung-sil is a South Korean football manager and former footballer. He was a participant in the 1990 FIFA World Cup.  Club career  Lee was one of the greatest K League midfielders early in the history of K League. He received various seasonal awards by being named the Most Valuable Player, Rookie of the Year, top assist provider, and five-time Best I winner, while spending his entire professional career at POSCO Atoms. He is also the first-ever player in the K League to score 30 goals and provide 30 assists. He helped POSCO Atoms win three K League titles.  Style of play  Nicknamed the Little Tank in South Korea, Lee was noted for his powerful dribbles and creative passes, although he had some weaknesses such as lack of defensive ability and height.  Career statistics   Club   Honours   Player  Hanyang University Korean National Championship: 1983 POSCO Atoms K League 1: 1986, 1988, 1992 Individual K League Rookie of the Year: 1985 K League 1 Best I: 1985, 1986, 1987, 1989, 1990 K League 1 Most Valuable Player: 1986 Korean FA Best I: 1986 K League top assist provider: 1989 K League '80s All-Star Team: 2003  Manager... 
Although the definition may vary by jurisdiction, foreclosure consultant generally means any person who makes any solicitation, representation, or offer to any owner to perform for compensation or who, for compensation, performs any service which the person in any manner represents will in any manner do any of the following: Stop or postpone the foreclosure sale. Obtain any forbearance from any beneficiary or mortgagee. Assist the owner to exercise the right of reinstatement. Obtain any extension of the period within which the owner may reinstate his or her obligation. Obtain any waiver of an acceleration clause contained in any promissory note or contract secured by a deed of trust or mortgage on a residence in foreclosure or contained in any such deed of trust or mortgage. Assist the owner to obtain a loan or advance of funds. Avoid or ameliorate the impairment of the owner's credit resulting from the recording of a notice of default or the conduct of a foreclosure sale. Save the owner's residence from foreclosure. In some jurisdictions a foreclosure consultant must be licensed by the government.  References   See also  Deed in lieu of foreclosure
Alsodryas prasinoptila is a species of moth in the family Gelechiidae. It was described by Edward Meyrick in 1922. It is found in Brazil. The wingspan is about 15 mm. The forewings are green, with the tips of the scales whitish. There are large subcostal and subdorsal tufts at one-fourth and smaller tufts mixed dark grey representing the stigmata, the plical hardly before the first discal. There is a paler shade from three-fourths of the costa to the dorsum before the tornus, very obtusely angulated in the middle, the upper half slightly sinuate, some dark grey irroration beyond the angle. There are also cloudy blackish-grey marginal dots around the posterior part of the costa and termen. The hindwings are dark fuscous.  References 
Abraham Alcano Fernndez was a Chilean politician who served as a minister.  Family and education  He was born in Santiago, Chile in 1900, the son of Agustn Alcano Prez de Arce and Paula Fernndez Jaraquemada. Alcano completed his secondary education at the Liceo Miguel Luis Amuntegui and the Liceo de Aplicacin, and studied civil engineering at the University of Chile. He married Sara Silva Lateste, with whom he had three children: Sara Lucy, Mara, and Ral.  Political career  Alcano joined the Directorate General of Public Works , where he worked as an engineer and technical adviser. He promoted a road construction plan within the Ministry of Development and represented Chile as a delegate at communications and highway congresses held in Mexico , Rio de Janeiro , and the United States. From 1939 to 1946, he held senior positions within the state housing administration, eventually heading the then-called Caja de la Habitacin, a predecessor of the Caja de la Habitacin Popular. In this capacity, he promoted legislation to establish a central institution responsible for constructing and financing workers' housing and...
The women's 500 metres at the 2011 Asian Winter Games was held on February 1, 2011 in Astana, Kazakhstan.  Schedule  All times are Almaty Time  Results   Heats  Qualification: 1-2  Semifinals  Heat 1   Heat 2   Heat 3   Heat 4   Semifinals  Qualification: 1-2  Final A , 3-4  Final B  Heat 1   Heat 2   Finals   Final B   Final A   References  Final  External links  Official website
In mathematics, a building also Tits building, named after Jacques Tits is a combinatorial and geometric structure which simultaneously generalizes certain aspects of flag manifolds, finite projective planes, and Riemannian symmetric spaces. Buildings were initially introduced by Jacques Tits as a means to understand the structure of isotropic reductive linear algebraic groups over arbitrary fields. The more specialized theory of Bruhat-Tits buildings plays a role in the study of p-adic Lie groups analogous to that of the theory of symmetric spaces in the theory of Lie groups.  Overview  The notion of a building was invented by Jacques Tits as a means of describing simple algebraic groups over an arbitrary field. Tits demonstrated how to every such group G one can associate a simplicial complex    with an action of G, called the spherical building of G. The group G imposes very strong combinatorial regularity conditions on the complexes  that can arise in this fashion. By treating these conditions as axioms for a class of simplicial complexes, Tits arrived at his first definition of a building. A part of the data defining a building...
Concrete Mathematics: A Foundation for Computer Science, by Ronald Graham, Donald Knuth, and Oren Patashnik, first published in 1989, is a textbook that is widely used in computer-science departments as a substantive but light-hearted treatment of the analysis of algorithms.  Contents and history  The book provides mathematical knowledge and skills for computer science, especially for the analysis of algorithms. According to the preface, the topics in Concrete Mathematics are a blend of CONtinuous and disCRETE mathematics. Calculus is frequently used in the explanations and exercises. The term concrete mathematics also denotes a complement to abstract mathematics. The book is based on a course begun in 1970 by Knuth at Stanford University. The book expands on the material in the Mathematical Preliminaries section of Knuth's The Art of Computer Programming. Consequently, some readers use it as an introduction to that series of books. Concrete Mathematics has an informal and often humorous style. The authors reject what they see as the dry style of most mathematics textbooks. The margins contain mathematical graffiti, comments submitted by the...
The number  is a mathematical constant that is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its radius. It is exactly equal to 2 and approximately equal to 6.283185.  and  are both circle constants relating the circumference of a circle to its linear dimension: the radius in the case of  the diameter in the case of . While  is used almost exclusively in mainstream mathematical education and practice, it has been proposed, most notably by Michael Hartl in 2010, that  should be used instead. Hartl and other proponents argue that  is the more natural circle constant and its use leads to conceptually simpler and more intuitive mathematical notation. Critics have responded that the benefits of using  over  are trivial and that given the ubiquity and historical significance of  a change is unlikely to occur. The proposal did not initially gain widespread acceptance in the mathematical community, but awareness of  has become more widespread, including having been added to several major programming languages and calculators.  Fundamentals  The number  is commonly defined as the ratio of the circumference C to the radius r of a circle:...
Mathematics can be used to study Sudoku puzzles to answer questions such as How many filled Sudoku grids are there?, What is the minimal number of clues in a valid puzzle? and In what ways can Sudoku grids be symmetric? through the use of combinatorics and group theory. The analysis of Sudoku is generally divided between analyzing the properties of unsolved puzzles such as the minimum possible number of given clues and analyzing the properties of solved puzzles. Initial analysis was largely focused on enumerating solutions, with results first appearing in 2004. For classical Sudoku, the number of filled grids is 6,670,903,752,021,072,936,960 , which reduces to 5,472,730,538 essentially different solutions under the validity-preserving transformations. There are 26 possible types of symmetry, but they can only be found in about 0.005 of all filled grids. An ordinary puzzle with a unique solution must have at least 17 clues. There is a solvable puzzle with at most 21 clues for every solved grid. The largest minimal puzzle found so far has 40 clues in the 81 cells.  Terminology  Regions of the Sudoku are also called blocks or boxes. A band is a part of the grid...
Symmetry occurs not only in geometry, but also in other branches of mathematics. Symmetry is a type of invariance: the property that a mathematical object remains unchanged under a set of operations or transformations. Given a structured object  of any sort, a symmetry is a mapping of the object onto itself which preserves the structure. This can occur in many ways for example, if  is a set with no additional structure, a symmetry is a bijective map from the set to itself, giving rise to permutation groups. If the object  is a set of points in the plane with its metric structure or any other metric space, a symmetry is a bijection of the set to itself which preserves the distance between each pair of points . In general, every kind of structure in mathematics will have its own kind of symmetry, many of which are listed in the given points mentioned above.  Symmetry in geometry  The types of symmetry considered in basic geometry include reflectional symmetry, rotational symmetry, translational symmetry and glide reflection symmetry, which are described more fully in the main article Symmetry .  Symmetry in calculus   Even and odd functions... 
Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics is an umbrella term used to group together the related technical disciplines of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. It represents a broad and interconnected set of fields that are crucial for innovation and technological advancement. These disciplines are often grouped together because they share a common emphasis on critical thinking, problem-solving, and analytical skills. The term is typically used in the context of education policy or curriculum choices in schools. It has implications for workforce development, national security concerns as a shortage of STEM-educated citizens can reduce effectiveness in this area, and immigration policy, with regard to admitting foreign students and tech workers. There is no universal agreement on which disciplines are included in STEM in particular, whether or not the science in STEM includes social sciences, such as psychology, sociology, economics, and political science. In the United States, these are typically included by the National Science Foundation , the Department of Labor's ONet online database for job seekers, and the Department of Homeland Security. In...
Computer mathematics may refer to: Automated theorem proving, the proving of mathematical theorems by a computer program Symbolic computation, the study and development of algorithms and software for manipulating mathematical expressions and other mathematical objects Computational science, constructing numerical solutions and using computers to analyze and solve scientific and engineering problems Theoretical computer science, collection of topics of computer science and mathematics that focuses on the more abstract and mathematical aspects of computing
In mathematics, the notion of a germ of an object inon a topological space is an equivalence class of that object and others of the same kind that captures their shared local properties. In particular, the objects in question are mostly functions and subsets. In specific implementations of this idea, the functions or subsets in question will have some property, such as being analytic or smooth, but in general this is not needed the functions in question need not even be continuous it is however necessary that the space onin which the object is defined is a topological space, in order that the word local has some meaning.  Name  The name is derived from cereal germ in a continuation of the sheaf metaphor, as a germ is the heart of a function, as it is for a grain.  Formal definition   Basic definition  Given a point x of a topological space , and two maps f , g :   Y displaystyle f,g:to Y , then f displaystyle f and g displaystyle g define...
Connected Mathematics is a comprehensive mathematics program intended for U.S. students in grades 6-8. The curriculum design, text materials for students, and supporting resources for teachers were created and have been progressively refined by the Connected Mathematics Project at Michigan State University with advice and contributions from many mathematics teachers, curriculum developers, mathematicians, and mathematics education researchers. The current third edition of Connected Mathematics is a major revision of the program to reflect new expectations of the Common Core State Standards for Mathematics and what the authors have learned from over twenty years of field experience by thousands of teachers working with millions of middle grades students. This CMP3 program is now published in paper and electronic form by Pearson Education.  Core principles  The first edition of Connected Mathematics, developed with financial support from the National Science Foundation, was designed to provide instructional materials for middle grades mathematics. It was based on the 1989 Curriculum and Evaluation Standards and the 1991 Professional Standards for Teaching Mathematics from the...
Mathematics and architecture are related, since architecture, like some other arts, uses mathematics for several reasons. Apart from the mathematics needed when engineering buildings, architects use geometry: to define the spatial form of a building from the Pythagoreans of the sixth century BC onwards, to create architectural forms considered harmonious, and thus to lay out buildings and their surroundings according to mathematical, aesthetic and sometimes religious principles to decorate buildings with mathematical objects such as tessellations and to meet environmental goals, such as to minimise wind speeds around the bases of tall buildings. In ancient Egypt, ancient Greece, India, and the Islamic world, buildings including pyramids, temples, mosques, palaces and mausoleums were laid out with specific proportions for religious reasons. In Islamic architecture, geometric shapes and geometric tiling patterns are used to decorate buildings, both inside and outside. Some Hindu temples have a fractal-like structure where parts resemble the whole, conveying a message about the infinite in Hindu cosmology. In Chinese architecture, the tulou of Fujian province are circular, communal...
In mathematics, a spline is a function defined piecewise by polynomials. In interpolating problems, spline interpolation is often preferred to polynomial interpolation because it yields similar results, even when using low degree polynomials, while avoiding Runge's phenomenon for higher degrees. In the computer science subfields of computer-aided design and computer graphics, the term spline more frequently refers to a piecewise polynomial curve. Splines are popular curves in these subfields because of the simplicity of their construction, their ease and accuracy of evaluation, and their capacity to approximate complex shapes through curve fitting and interactive curve design. The term spline comes from the flexible spline devices used by shipbuilders and draftsmen to draw smooth shapes.  Introduction  The term spline is used to refer to a wide class of functions that are used in applications requiring data interpolation andor smoothing. The data may be either one-dimensional or multi-dimensional. Spline functions for interpolation are normally determined as the minimizers of suitable measures of roughness subject to the interpolation...
0 is a number representing an empty quantity. Adding 0 to any number leaves that number unchanged in mathematical terminology, 0 is the additive identity of the integers, rational numbers, real numbers, and complex numbers, as well as other algebraic structures. Multiplying any number by 0 results in 0, and consequently dividing by 0 is generally considered to be undefined in arithmetic. As a numerical digit, 0 plays a crucial role in decimal notation: it indicates that the power of ten corresponding to the place containing a 0 does not contribute to the total. For example, 205 in decimal means two hundreds, no tens, and five ones. The same principle applies in place-value notations that uses a base other than ten, such as binary and hexadecimal. The modern use of 0 in this manner derives from Indian mathematics that was transmitted to Europe via medieval Islamic mathematicians and popularized by Fibonacci. It was independently used by the Maya. Common names for the number 0 in English include zero, nought, naught , and nil. In contexts where at least one adjacent digit distinguishes it from the letter O, the number is sometimes pronounced as oh or o...
Many mathematical problems have been stated but not yet solved. These problems come from many areas of mathematics, such as theoretical physics, computer science, algebra, analysis, combinatorics, algebraic, differential, discrete and Euclidean geometries, graph theory, group theory, mathematical logic, number theory, set theory, Ramsey theory, dynamical systems, and partial differential equations. Some problems belong to more than one discipline and are studied using techniques from different areas. Prizes are often awarded for the solution to a long-standing problem, and some lists of unsolved problems, such as the Millennium Prize Problems, receive considerable attention. This list is a composite of notable unsolved problems mentioned in previously published lists, including but not limited to lists considered authoritative, and the problems listed here vary widely in both difficulty and importance.  Notable lists  For over a century, various mathematicians and organizations have published and promoted lists of unsolved mathematical problems. In some cases, the lists have been associated with prizes for the discoverers of solutions, with the Millennium Prize Problems each containing...
In mathematics a stack or 2-sheaf is, roughly speaking, a sheaf that takes values in categories rather than sets. Stacks are used to formalise some of the main constructions of descent theory, and to construct fine moduli stacks when fine moduli spaces do not exist. Descent theory is concerned with generalisations of situations where isomorphic, compatible geometrical objects such as vector bundles on topological spaces can be glued together within a restriction of the topological basis. In a more general set-up the restrictions are replaced with pullbacks fibred categories then make a good framework to discuss the possibility of such gluing. The intuitive meaning of a stack is that it is a fibred category such that all possible gluings work. The specification of gluings requires a definition of coverings with regard to which the gluings can be considered. It turns out that the general language for describing these coverings is that of a Grothendieck topology. Thus a stack is formally given as a fibred category over another base category, where the base has a Grothendieck topology and where the fibred category satisfies a few axioms that ensure existence and uniqueness of certain...
In mathematics, a rate is the quotient of two quantities, often represented as a fraction. If the divisor in the rate is equal to one expressed as a single unit, and if it is assumed that this quantity can be changed systematically , then the dividend of the rate expresses the corresponding rate of change in the other variable. In some cases, it may be regarded as a change to a value, which is caused by a change of a value in respect to another value. For example, acceleration is a change in velocity with respect to time. Temporal rate is a common type of rate, in which the denominator is a time duration , such as in speed, heart rate, and flux. In fact, often rate is a synonym of rhythm or frequency, a count per second  e.g., radio frequencies or sample rates. In describing the units of a rate, the word per is used to separate the units of the two measurements used to calculate the rate for example, a heart rate is expressed as beats per minute. Rates that have a non-time divisor or denominator include exchange rates, literacy rates, and electric...
In mathematics, a map or mapping is synonymous to a function, though various branches add further nuances to differentiate them. The terms may have originated as from the process of making a geographical map: mapping the Earth surface to a sheet of paper.  Maps and functions  The term map may be used to distinguish some special types of functions, such as homomorphisms. For example, a linear map is a homomorphism of vector spaces, while the term linear function may have this meaning or it may mean a linear polynomial. In category theory, a map may refer to a morphism. The term transformation can be used interchangeably, but transformation often refers to a function from a set to itself. Certain branches will often define a map with a property of particular importance to that branch. For instance, a map is a continuous function in topology, a linear transformation in linear algebra, etc. Maps of certain kinds have also been given specific names. These include homomorphisms in algebra, isometries in geometry, operators in analysis and representations in group theory. In the theory of dynamical systems, a map denotes an evolution function used to create discrete dynamical systems...
In vector calculus, the curl, also known as rotor, is a vector operator that describes the infinitesimal circulation of a vector field in three-dimensional Euclidean space. The curl at a point in the field is represented by a vector whose length and direction denote the magnitude and axis of the maximum circulation respectively. The curl of a field is formally defined as the circulation density at each point of the field. A vector field whose curl is zero is called irrotational. The curl is a form of differentiation for vector fields. The corresponding form of the fundamental theorem of calculus is Stokes' theorem, which relates the surface integral of the curl of a vector field to the line integral of the vector field around the boundary curve. The notation curl F is more common in English-speaking countries. In the rest of the world, particularly in 20th century scientific literature, the alternative notation rot F is traditionally used, which comes from the rate of rotation that it represents. To avoid confusion, modern authors tend to use the cross product notation with the del operator, as in   F...
Informal mathematics, also called nave mathematics, has historically been the predominant form of mathematics at most times and in most cultures, and is the subject of modern ethno-cultural studies of mathematics. The philosopher Imre Lakatos in his Proofs and Refutations aimed to sharpen the formulation of informal mathematics, by reconstructing its role in nineteenth century mathematical debates and concept formation, opposing the predominant assumptions of mathematical formalism. Informality may not discern between statements given by inductive reasoning as in approximations which are deemed correct merely because they are useful, and statements derived by deductive reasoning.  Terminology  Informal mathematics means any informal mathematical practices, as used in everyday life, or by aboriginal or ancient peoples, without historical or geographical limitation. Modern mathematics, exceptionally from that point of view, emphasizes formal and strict proofs of all statements from given axioms. This can usefully be called therefore formal mathematics. Informal practices are usually understood intuitively and justified with examples-there are no axioms. This is of direct interest...
The language of mathematics or mathematical language is an extension of the natural language that is used in mathematics and in science for expressing results scientific laws, theorems, proofs, logical deductions, etc. with concision, precision and unambiguity.  Features  The main features of the mathematical language are the following. Use of common words with a derived meaning, generally more specific and more precise. For example, or means one, the other or both, while, in common language, both is sometimes included and sometimes not. Also, a line is straight and has zero width. Use of common words with a meaning that is completely different from their common meaning. For example, a mathematical ring is not related to any other meaning of ring. Real numbers and imaginary numbers are two sorts of numbers, none being more real or more imaginary than the others. Use of neologisms. For example polynomial, homomorphism. Use of symbols as words or phrases. For example, A  B displaystyle AB and  x displaystyle forall x are respectively...
In mathematics, a domino is a polyomino of order 2, that is, a polygon in the plane made of two equal-sized squares connected edge-to-edge, and a 1x2 rectangle. When rotations and reflections are not considered to be distinct shapes, there is only one free domino. Since it has reflection symmetry, it is also the only one-sided domino . When rotations are also considered distinct, there are two fixed dominoes: The second one can be created by rotating the one above by 90. In a wider sense, the term domino is sometimes understood to mean a tile of any shape.  Packing and tiling  Dominos can tile the plane in a countably infinite number of ways. The number of tilings of a 2n rectangle with dominoes is F n displaystyle Fn , the nth Fibonacci number. Domino tilings figure in several celebrated problems, including the Aztec diamond problem in which large diamond-shaped regions have a number of tilings equal to a power of two, with most tilings appearing random within a central circular region and having a more regular structure outside of this...
Mathematical physics is the development of mathematical methods for use in physics and their applications. A broader definition would include the development of mathematical ideas inspired by physics, known as physical mathematics.  Scope  There are several distinct branches of mathematical physics, and these roughly correspond to particular historical parts of our world.  Classical mechanics  Applying the techniques of mathematical physics to classical mechanics typically involves the rigorous, abstract, and advanced reformulation of Newtonian mechanics in terms of Lagrangian mechanics and Hamiltonian mechanics including both approaches in the presence of constraints. Both formulations are embodied in analytical mechanics and lead to an understanding of the deep interplay between the notions of symmetry and conserved quantities during the dynamical evolution of mechanical systems, as embodied within the most elementary formulation of Noether's theorem. These approaches and ideas have been extended to other areas of physics, such as statistical mechanics, continuum mechanics, classical field theory, and quantum field theory. Moreover, they have provided multiple examples...
This is a timeline of pure and applied mathematics history. It is divided here into three stages, corresponding to stages in the development of mathematical notation: a rhetorical stage in which calculations are described purely by words, a syncopated stage in which quantities and common algebraic operations are beginning to be represented by symbolic abbreviations, and finally a symbolic stage, in which comprehensive notational systems for formulas are the norm.  Rhetorical stage   Before 1000 BC  ca. 70,000 BC - South Africa, ochre rocks adorned with scratched geometric patterns . ca. 35,000 BC to 20,000 BC - Africa and France, earliest known prehistoric attempts to quantify time . c. 20,000 BC - Nile Valley, Ishango bone: possibly the earliest reference to prime numbers and Egyptian multiplication. c. 3400 BC - Mesopotamia, the Sumerians invent the first numeral system, and a system of weights and measures. c. 3100 BC - Egypt, the earliest known decimal system allows indefinite counting by way of introducing new symbols. c. 2800 BC - Indus Valley Civilization on the Indian subcontinent, earliest use of decimal ratios in a uniform...
In mathematics, quadrature is a historic term for the computation of areas and is thus used for computation of integrals. The word is derived from the Latin quadratus meaning square. The reason is that, for Ancient Greek mathematicians, the computation of an area consisted of constructing a square of the same area. In this sense, the modern term is squaring. For example, the quadrature of the circle, is a famous old problem that has been shown, in the 19th century, to be impossible with the methods available to the Ancient Greeks. Integral calculus, introduced in the 17th century, is a general method for computation of areas. Quadrature came to refer to the computation of any integral such a computation is presently called more often integral or integration. However, the computation of solutions of differential equations and differential systems is also called integration, and quadrature remains useful for distinguishing integrals from solutions of differential equations, in contexts where both problems are considered. This is the case in numerical analysis see numerical quadrature. Also, reduction to quadratures and solving by quadratures means expressing...
The mathematics of gambling is a collection of probability applications encountered in games of chance and can be included in game theory. From a mathematical point of view, the games of chance are experiments generating various types of aleatory events, and it is possible to calculate by using the properties of probability on a finite space of possibilities.  Experiments, events, and probability spaces  The technical processes of a game stand for experiments that generate aleatory events. Here are a few examples: The occurrences could be defined however, when formulating a probability problem, they must be done extremely carefully. From a mathematical point of view, the events are nothing more than subsets, and the space of events is a Boolean algebra. We find elementary and compound events, exclusive and nonexclusive events, and independent and non-independent events. In the experiment of rolling a die: Event 3, 5 whose literal definition is the occurrence of 3 or 5 is compound because 3, 5 3 U 5 Events 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 are elementary Events 3, 5 and 4 are incompatible or exclusive because their intersection is empty that is, they cannot occur simultaneously...
Mathematics has no generally accepted definition. Different schools of thought, particularly in philosophy, have put forth radically different definitions. All are controversial.  Early definitions  Aristotle defined mathematics as: The science of quantity. In Aristotle's classification of the sciences, discrete quantities were studied by arithmetic, continuous quantities by geometry. Aristotle also thought that quantity alone does not distinguish mathematics from sciences like physics in his view, abstraction and studying quantity as a property separable in thought from real instances set mathematics apart. Auguste Comte's definition tried to explain the role of mathematics in coordinating phenomena in all other fields: The science of indirect measurement. Auguste Comte 1851 The indirectness in Comte's definition refers to determining quantities that cannot be measured directly, such as the distance to planets or the size of atoms, by means of their relations to quantities that can be measured directly.  Greater abstraction and competing philosophical schools  The preceding kinds of definitions, which had prevailed since Aristotle's time, were abandoned in the 19th century...
In mathematics, polyad is a concept of category theory introduced by Jean Bnabou in generalising monads. A polyad in a bicategory D is a bicategory morphism  from a locally punctual bicategory C to D,  : C  D. A bicategory C is called locally punctual if all hom-categories C consist of one object and one morphism only. Monads are polyads  : C  D where C has only one object.  Notes   Bibliography  Street, Ross , Enriched Categories and Cohomology, Quaestiones Mathematicae, 6 : 265-283, doi:10.108016073606.1983.9632304 Street, Ross , Enriched categories and cohomology , Reprints in Theory and Applications of Categories, 14: 1-18 Leinster, Tom . Generalized Enrichment for Categories and Multicategories. ariv:math9901139. Garner, Richard Shulman, Michael . Enriched categories as a free cocompletion. Advances in Mathematics. 289: 1-94. doi:10.1016j.aim.2015.11.012.
A mathematical proof is a deductive argument for a mathematical statement, showing that the stated assumptions logically guarantee the conclusion. The argument may use other previously established statements, such as theorems but every proof can, in principle, be constructed using only certain basic or original assumptions known as axioms, along with the accepted rules of inference. Proofs are examples of exhaustive deductive reasoning that establish logical certainty, to be distinguished from empirical arguments or non-exhaustive inductive reasoning that establish reasonable expectation. Presenting many cases in which the statement holds is not enough for a proof, which must demonstrate that the statement is true in all possible cases. A proposition that has not been proved but is believed to be true is known as a conjecture, or a hypothesis if frequently used as an assumption for further mathematical work. Proofs employ logic expressed in mathematical symbols, along with natural language that usually admits some ambiguity. In most mathematical literature, proofs are written in terms of rigorous informal logic. Purely formal proofs, written fully in symbolic language without the...
In mathematics, a singleton also known as a unit set or one-point set is a set with exactly one element. For example, the set  0  displaystyle 0 is a singleton whose single element is 0 displaystyle 0 .  Properties  Within the framework of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory, the axiom of regularity guarantees that no set is an element of itself. This implies that a singleton is necessarily distinct from the element it contains, thus 1 and  1  displaystyle 1 are not the same thing, and the empty set is distinct from the set containing only the empty set. A set such as   1 , 2 , 3   displaystyle 1,2,3 is a singleton as it contains a single element which itself is a set, but not a singleton. A set is a singleton if and only if its cardinality is 1. In von Neumann's set-theoretic construction of the natural numbers, the number 1 is defined as the singleton ...
Business mathematics are mathematics used by commercial enterprises to record and manage business operations. Commercial organizations use mathematics in accounting, inventory management, marketing, sales forecasting, and financial analysis. Mathematics typically used in commerce includes elementary arithmetic, elementary algebra, statistics and probability. For some management problems, more advanced mathematics - calculus, matrix algebra, and linear programming - may be applied.  High school  Business mathematics, sometimes called commercial math or consumer math, is a group of practical subjects used in commerce and everyday life. In schools, these subjects are often taught to students who are not planning a university education. In the United States, they are typically offered in high schools and in schools that grant associate's degrees elsewhere they may be included under business studies. These courses often fulfill the general math credit for high school students. The emphasis in these courses is on computational skills and their practical application, with practice being predominant. A business math course typically includes a review of elementary arithmetic...
In mathematics, specifically algebraic geometry, a scheme is a structure that enlarges the notion of an algebraic variety in several ways, such as taking account of multiplicities the equations x  0 and x2  0 define the same algebraic variety but different schemes and allowing varieties defined over any commutative ring for example, Fermat curves are defined over the integers. Scheme theory was introduced by Alexander Grothendieck in 1960 in his treatise lments de gomtrie algbrique  one of its aims was developing the formalism needed to solve deep problems of algebraic geometry, such as the Weil conjectures the last of which was proved by Pierre Deligne. Strongly based on commutative algebra, scheme theory allows a systematic use of methods of topology and homological algebra. Scheme theory also unifies algebraic geometry with much of number theory, which eventually led to Wiles's proof of Fermat's Last Theorem. Schemes elaborate the fundamental idea that an algebraic variety is best analyzed through the coordinate ring of regular algebraic functions defined on it , and each subvariety corresponds to the ideal of functions which vanish on the...
Mathematical optimization or mathematical programming is the selection of a best element, with regard to some criteria, from some set of available alternatives. It is generally divided into two subfields: discrete optimization and continuous optimization. Optimization problems arise in all quantitative disciplines from computer science and engineering to operations research and economics, and the development of solution methods has been of interest in mathematics for centuries. In the more general approach, an optimization problem consists of maximizing or minimizing a real function by systematically choosing input values from within an allowed set and computing the value of the function. The generalization of optimization theory and techniques to other formulations constitutes a large area of applied mathematics.  Optimization problems  Optimization problems can be divided into two categories, depending on whether the variables are continuous or discrete: An optimization problem with discrete variables is known as a discrete optimization, in which an object such as an integer, permutation or graph must be found from a countable set. A problem...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 898 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
A node is a basic unit of a data structure, such as a linked list or tree data structure. Nodes contain data and also may link to other nodes. Links between nodes are often implemented by pointers.  Nodes and trees  Nodes are often arranged into tree structures. A node represents the information contained in a single data structure. These nodes may contain a value or condition, or possibly serve as another independent data structure. Nodes are represented by a single parent node. The highest point on a tree structure is called a root node, which does not have a parent node, but serves as the parent or 'grandparent' of all of the nodes below it in the tree. The height of a node is determined by the total number of edges on the path from that node to the furthest leaf node, and the height of the tree is equal to the height of the root node. Node depth is determined by the distance between that particular node and the root node. The root node is said to have a depth of zero. Data can be discovered along these network paths. An IP address uses this kind of system of nodes to define its location in a network.  Definitions  Child: A child node is a node extending from another node...
In theoretical computer science, a circuit is a model of computation in which input values proceed through a sequence of gates, each of which computes a function. Circuits of this kind provide a generalization of Boolean circuits and a mathematical model for digital logic circuits. Circuits are defined by the gates they contain and the values the gates can produce. For example, the values in a Boolean circuit are Boolean values, and the circuit includes conjunction, disjunction, and negation gates. The values in an integer circuit are sets of integers and the gates compute set union, set intersection, and set complement, as well as the arithmetic operations addition and multiplication.  Formal definition  A circuit is a triplet  M , L , G  displaystyle  , where M displaystyle M is a set of values, L displaystyle L is a set of gate labels, each of which is a function from M i displaystyle M...
In parallel computing, a barrier is a synchronization method. A barrier for a group of threads or processes in the source code means that all threadprocess stop at that point and do not proceed until all other threadsprocesses reach this barrier. Many collective routines and directive-based parallel languages impose implicit barriers. For example, a parallel do loop in Fortran with OpenMP will not be allowed to continue on any thread until the last iteration is completed. This is in case the program relies on the result of the loop immediately after its completion. In message passing, any global communication may imply a barrier. In concurrent computing, a barrier may be in a raised or lowered state. The term latch is sometimes used to refer to a barrier that starts in the raised state and cannot be re-raised once it is in the lowered state. The term count-down latch is sometimes used to refer to a latch that is automatically lowered once a predetermined number of threadsprocesses have arrived.  Implementation  Consider the following example of a thread barrier. The thread barrier requires a variable to keep track of the total number of...
In product development, an end user is a person who ultimately uses or is intended to ultimately use a product. The end user stands in contrast to users who support or maintain the product, such as sysops, system administrators, database administrators, information technology experts, software professionals, and computer technicians. End users typically do not possess the technical understanding or skill of the product designers, a fact that can be easily overlooked by designers, which may lead to features with low customer satisfaction. In information technology, end users are not customers in the usual sense-they are typically employees of the customer. For example, if a large retail corporation buys a software package for its employees to use, even though the large retail corporation was the customer that purchased the software, the end users are the employees of the company, who will use the software at work.  Context  End users are one of the three major factors contributing to the complexity of managing information systems. The end user's position has changed from a position in the 1950s where end users did not interact with the mainframe computer experts programmed...
The Computer Science Tripos is the undergraduate course in computer science offered by the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory. It evolved out of the Diploma in Computer Science, the world's first taught course in computer science, which started in 1953. Successful candidates are awarded a Bachelor of Arts honours degree after three years or, a combined BA  Master of Engineering honours degree after four years of study, though admission to the fourth year is usually contingent on attaining a first-class result in the third year.  Notable alumni  Aubrey de Grey Demis Hassabis Simon Tatham  References 
Wolf Kahlen  7 January 1940 in Aachen, Rhine Province is a German video and performance artist who has been active since the 1960s. Since 1982, he has served as a professor of intermedia art at the Technische Universitt Berlin.  Career  Wolf Kahlen began his studies at the Braunschweig School of Art in 1960. From 1961 to 1964, he studied art education at the University of Art in Berlin graduating as an art teacher, and a degree in American studies and Finnish at the Freie Universitt Berlin in 1964. In 1962, he was a guest student at the Ateneum in Helsinki where he studied graphics under Aukusti Tuhka and held his first solo exhibition. From 1965 to 1966 Wolf Kahlen resided in the United States on a scholarship from the German Academic Exchange Service and studied at Columbia University in New York and at the Pratt Institute. During this time he made acquaintances with Rudolf Arnheim, Allan Kaprow, Marcel Breuer and Richard Tuttle, developed basic plastic structures for room segments and was able to realize the UMBILDER-ROTARIES exhibition in the Goethe House Gallery in New York in 1966.  References   External links  Personal site
Good Luck to the Rider is the first children's book by Australian author Joan Phipson it was illustrated by Margaret Horder. It was joint winner of the Children's Book of the Year Award: Older Readers in 1953.  Story outline  Barbara Trevor is the youngest of four children living on their parents' farm in country Australia. Barbara has acquired a horse, which she calls Rosinante, though she doesn't know the origin of the name. The book follows her attempts to school her horse and come to terms with her own life.  Critical reception  In a survey of children's books to signal the commencement of Children's Book Week in 1953 a reviewer in The Sunday Herald stated: Australian country life is well described in a wholesome story. All the characters ring true. The Trevors are an unaffected family. Their homestead is typical of many in this broad land, and the four children act and live like normal children...There are no contrived adventures it is a natural, easy flowing story which will entertain and absorb the attention of its readers. Margaret Horder's illustrations have caught the spirit of the book, and particularly of Rosinante. Kirkus Reviews praised the...
Svetlana Novak is a Paris-based film producer. Her credits include the films Delicatessen, The City of Lost Children, and Amlie. She has an extensive working relationship with the Serbian director Emir Kusturica having worked on Black Cat, White Cat, Underground, and Arizona Dream. Novak served two years as the producer for the Rentre du Cinma project, an initiative to make cinema more accessible to audiences by drastically reducing ticket prices. She is now part of the international Cities of Love project. Along with Gilles Caussade, she is leading the production team for the Marseille, je t'aime edition of the film.  Cities of Love  Cities of Love is a series of motion pictures illustrating the universality of love in major cities around the world. Each episode is a collective feature film comprising no fewer than 10 segments created by separate directors. Three such pictures have already been completed: Paris, je t'aime in 2006, New York, I Love You in 2009, and Rio, Eu Te Amo in 2014. Episodes are planned for Shanghai, Jerusalem, Venice, Delhi, Marseille, Berlin and New Orleans.  References   External links... 
Calosima darwini is a moth in the family Blastobasidae. It is found on the Galapagos Islands. The length of the forewings is 4-6.9 mm.  Etymology  The species is named after Charles Darwin.  References  Data related to Calosima darwini at Wikispecies
Franklin Clark Fry was a leading American Lutheran clergyman, known for his work on behalf of interdenominational unity.  Early years  Fry's parents were Franklin Foster Fry and Minnie C. Fry, ne McKeown. He was born in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, on August 30, 1900 he had no brothers or sisters. He attended Hamilton College in Clinton, New York the American School of Classical Studies at Athens and the Lutheran Theological Seminary at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was ordained in Ithaca on June 10, 1925. Following his ordination, Fry served as pastor for congregations in Yonkers, New York, and Akron, Ohio.  Interdenominational work  In 1944, Fry was elected president of the United Lutheran Church in America, one of the larger of many U.S. Lutheran denominations, which had been established in 1918 with the merger of three independent German synods. He expressed a wry ambivalence following his election, claiming that he would much rather have a pastorate than squirt grease into ecclesiastical machinery. Nonetheless, during his time as president, Fry became known among many church leaders as Mr. Protestant, a moniker that captured his tireless...
Kohoutek is a Czech surname. It is a diminutive of the word kohout and the surname Kohout. Notable people with the surname include: Ctirad Kohoutek , Czech composer and music theorist Lubo Kohoutek , Czech astronomer  See also  Comet Kohoutek, a comet discovered by and named in honor of the astronomer 1850 Kohoutek, an asteroid named in honor of the astronomer
Snstorp Nyhem FF is a Swedish football club located in Halmstad.  Background  Snstorp Nyhem FF currently plays in Division 3 Halland Elit which is the fifth tier of Swedish football. They play their home matches at the Snstorps IP in Halmstad. The club is affiliated to Hallands Fotbollfrbund. Snstorp Nyhem FF have competed in the Svenska Cupen on 21 occasions and have played 43 matches in the competition.  Season to season   Footnotes   External links  Snstorp Nyhem FF - Official website
Robert B. Yank Heisler Jr. was the retired chairman of KeyBank, the 12th largest bank in the United States by total assets, the retired chief executive officer of McDonald Financial Group, and was the dean of the Kent State University College of Business Administration and Graduate School of Management until 2011. The Kent State business school under Heisler's leadership was selected by The Princeton Review for its 2009 list of the top business education programs in the United States. In 2005, he was named to the Inside Business Hall of Fame.  Early life and education  Heisler was raised in Ravenna, Ohio, roughly 40 miles southeast of Cleveland. He was an all-star athlete in golf, basketball, and football at Ravenna High School from 1962-1966, winning back-to-back State Championships in golf his junior and senior years. He was inducted for his athletic accomplishments into the Ravenna Raven Hall of Fame, which also recognized his later business leadership. He graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in biochemistry from Harvard College in 1970 and earned his master's degree in business administration from Kent State University in 1974. He also...
Colwyn was, from 1894 to 1974, a rural district in the administrative county of Radnorshire, Wales. The district was formed by the Local Government Act 1894, when the existing Builth Rural Sanitary District was divided into two: the section in Breconshire was reconstituted as Builth Rural District and that in Radnorshire as Colwyn Rural District. The new district took its name from the ancient hundred of Colwyn. The council continued to be based in Builth Wells in Breconshire. The rural district comprised ten civil parishes: The district was abolished in 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, which completely reorganised local administration in England and Wales. Its area became part of the District of Radnor in the new county of Powys.  References 
Mordhau is a multiplayer medieval hack and slash fighting game developed by the independent Slovenian studio Triternion, with a prominent aspect of skill-based competitive play and customization. It features a combat system emphasizing hand-to-hand combat, loosely based on historical techniques such as feints, redirection, and alternative use of weapons. Other features include ranged weapons, siege engines and mounted combat. The game was released on 29 April 2019 for Windows via Steam. Versions for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, box One, and box Series S were released on 12 July 2023. The game was partially financed through a Kickstarter campaign in 2017, raising nearly 300,000.  Gameplay  In Mordhau, players engage in hand-to-hand combat with medieval weapons such as swords, spears, shields, hammers, bows, siege weapons and more. When in close-quarters combat, players can defeat their opponents by utilizing techniques like directional strikes, stabbing, kicking, dodging, blocking, and parrying while watching their health and stamina bars. Players may ride horses in battle. The game can be played in either first person perspective or third person perspective.  Customization... 
The Carew baronetcy, of Haccombe in the County of Devon, was created in the Baronetage of England on 2 August 1661 for Thomas Carew, Member of Parliament for Tiverton.  Carew baronets, of Haccombe  Sir Thomas Carew, 1st Baronet Sir Henry Carew, 2nd Baronet Sir Henry Darrell Carew, 3rd Baronet Sir Thomas Carew, 4th Baronet Sir John Carew, 5th Baronet Sir Thomas Carew, 6th Baronet Sir Henry Carew, 7th Baronet Sir Walter Palk Carew, 8th Baronet Sir Henry Palk Carew, 9th Baronet Sir Thomas Palk Carew, 10th Baronet Sir Rivers Verain Carew, 11th Baronet The heir apparent to the baronetcy is Gerald De Redvers Carew , eldest living son of the 11th Baronet.  Extended family  Charles Carew, grandson of the Rev. Thomas Carew, younger son of the 6th Baronet, sat as Member of Parliament for Tiverton. Patrick Henry Curtis Carew , great-grandson of Thomas Carew , third son of the 7th Baronet, was a Brigadier-General in the Royal Canadian Dragoons.  Notes 
Gyracanthus from Greek:  gyros, 'curved' and Greek:  akantha, 'spine' is an extinct genus of acanthodian.  Species  There are at least twenty one definitively known species, and at least one species tentatively assigned to Gyracanthus. G. alleni G. alnwicensis G. compressus G. convexus G. cordatus G. duplicatus G. falciformis G. formosus G. incurvus G. inornatus G.? jasperi G. magnificus G. nobilis G. obliquus G. parvulus G. primaevus G. rectus G. rothrocki G. sarlei G. sherwoodi G. tuberculatus G. youngii  See also  List of acanthodians  References 
Thomas Pallavicini was the marquess of Bodonitsa following a disputed succession in 1286. He was the grandson of Rubino, younger brother of Guy, the first margrave. In 1286, the marchioness Isabella, Guy's daughter, died childless and the marquisate was immediately the subject of disputed claims: that of Thomas and that of her widower. Bodonitsa was a vassal of the Principality of Achaea, which was held by the bailli William de la Roche, the duke of Athens, at the time. William, though a relative of the Pallavicini, presiding in his capacity as bailiff over the feudal court of Achaea, did not decide for Thomas as successor of Isabella before Thomas seized the castle of Bodonitsa and thus installed himself undisputedly as master of the march. He ruled it quietly for an unknown period of time, perhaps beyond 1300, and transmitted it to his son Albert.  Sources  Miller, William . The Marquisate of Boudonitza . Journal of Hellenic Studies. 28 : 234-249. doi:10.2307624608. JSTOR 624608. S2CID 162336648.
The Vauxhall Belmont is a saloon car sold in Great Britain by Vauxhall between January 1986 and September 1991. It is a rebadged version of the Opel Kadett E saloon, with this bodystyle launched in September 1985. The other body styles of the Kadett E were marketed in the United Kingdom as Vauxhall Astra. The Belmont won praise for its huge boot compared to other rivals of the time. With hatchbacks becoming firmly established as the preferred bodystyle in small European family cars, fewer saloons were on offer. During the 1980s, in order to enable them to position saloons as a slight cut above their hatchback counterparts, many manufacturers marketed them with different nameplates. Ford of Europe's saloon version of the Ford Escort hatchback was badged the Ford Orion, and the Volkswagen Golf based saloon was sold as the Volkswagen Jetta. However, when GM launched a saloon version of the Vauxhall AstraOpel Kadett, only British customers received it with a different badge. The Belmont went on sale in January 1986. While sold as a Kadett in the rest of Europe, in South Africa, it was called the Opel Monza not to be confused with the large Senator based coup sold in Europe along with...
Shabnam Majeed is a Pakistani film and TV playback singer.  Personal life  Shabnam Majeed has four children with her former husband Wajid Ali, a music director. Their son, Naqi Ali , died at age seven after falling down the stairs in 2010. She filed for khula divorce initiated by wife through a court of law in February 2020. Shabnam Majeed reportedly gave this reason for separation from her husband: I am upset over the fact that my husband is in contact with his ex-wife. Their pictures together have also gone viral. I am mentally drained and it is difficult for me to live with my husband anymore. Majeed's brother, Abdul Waheed, was shot dead on 18 November 2020. 12 days later, two arrests were made in connection with the murder investigation. According to police accounts, Abdul Waheed was killed by his brother-in-law and an accomplice.  Career  Shabnam Majeed started learning music at the age of 7. Shabnam first gained some fame in Pakistan through her remix of the single Dil Cheez Hai Kya. She has been described as 'one of the most prolific playback singers of Lollywood' by a major English language newspaper, The Express Tribune. Shabnam Majeed complained...
Leveille is a surname. Notable people with the name include: Charles Leveille , an American speed skater Daultan Leveille , a Canadian NCAA ice hockey player Kevin Leveille , an American lacrosse player Lise Leveille , a French Canadian gymnast Mike Leveille , a professional lacrosse player Normand Leveille , a retired Canadian professional hockey player  See also  Lveill
Ayta al-Jabal or Aayta Ej Jabal Arabic:  , romanized: Ayt al-Jabal, also Ayta az-Zutt Arabic:  , romanized: Ayt az-Zu, is a municipality in Nabatiye Governorate, in the Bint Jbeil District of southern Lebanon, about 112 kilometres from Beirut. The village is situated in the southern outskirts of the town of Tibnin, in the heart of the Lebanese Shia Muslim community of Jabal Amel. The village sits on an elevation of 680 metres above sea level.  History   Antiquity  Ayta al-Jabal is identified with Beth 'Ayit , a place referenced in the Baraita on the Boundaries of the Land of Israel as part of the delineation of the northwestern border of Jewish resettlement following the return from Babylonian exile. Scholarly analysis suggests that this text likely describes a later era, possibly the Hasmonean or Herodian periods, during the 2nd or 1st century BCE.  Ottoman period  In the 1596 Ottoman tax records, the village, named 'Ayta al-Gajar, was located in the Ottoman nahiya of Tibnin under the Liwa of Safad, with a population of 12 households and 3 bachelors, all Muslim. The villagers paid a fixed tax...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Chile. As of January 2011, there are 152 mammal species listed for Chile, of which four are critically endangered, eight are endangered, eight are vulnerable, and eleven are near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature those on the left are used here, those in the second column are used in some other articles:  Subclass: Theria   Infraclass: Metatheria   Superorder: Ameridelphia   Order: Didelphimorphia  Didelphimorphia is the order of common opossums of the Western Hemisphere. Opossums probably diverged from the basic South American marsupials in the late Cretaceous or early Paleocene. They are small to medium-sized marsupials, about the size of a large house cat, with a long snout and prehensile tail. Family: Didelphidae Subfamily: Didelphinae Genus: Thylamys Elegant fat-tailed mouse opossum, Thylamys elegans LC White-bellied fat-tailed mouse opossum, Thylamys pallidior LC  Order: Paucituberculata  There are six extant species of shrew opossum....
This is a list of mammal species recorded in the wild in Newfoundland, the island portion of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. Only 14 known species are or were native to the island this list is divided into native species and species introduced to the island since discovery by Europeans and colonization in the late 15th and early 16th centuries. Several species native to Newfoundland are genetically distinct subspecies of more common species found elsewhere in Canada and North America.  Native species  Northern long-eared bat, Myotis septentrionalis Hoary bat, Lasiurus cinereus Little brown bat, Myotis lucifugus Newfoundland black bear, Ursus americanus hamiltoni Newfoundland beaver, Castor canadensis caecator Migratory woodland caribou, Rangifer tarandus caribou Ermine, Mustela erminea Red fox, Vulpes vulpes deletrix, silver and cross variants Arctic hare, Lepus arcticus bangsii Newfoundland lynx, Lynx canadensis subsolanus Newfoundland pine marten, Martes americana atrata Muskrat, Ondatra zibethicus obscurus Northern river otter, Lontra canadensis degener Meadow vole, Microtus pennsylvanicus terranovae  Extinct species  Newfoundland...
Pacific Marine Mammal Center is a rescue, rehabilitation, and release facility for sick or at-risk wild mammals in Laguna Beach, California, United States. It was started by Jim Stauffer in 1971.  History  In 1971, Stauffer, a Laguna Beach lifeguard, was alerted to a Pacific harbor seal pup which appeared to be sick. He took the pup to an animal hospital, where it was found to be infested with lungworms. Stauffer nurtured the pup back to health and returned it to the ocean, and continued rescuing mammals in the Laguna Beach area with kiddie pools installed in his backyard. The California Department of Fish and Game later issued a permit allowing Stauffer to temporarily house seals and sea lions at his home, the first of its kind in the state. From that, Friends of the Sea Lion, later Pacific Marine Mammal Center, was established. Friends of the Sea Lion created membership cards and sold T-shirts to raise money in its early years. Their first major donation came from a woman whose dog Stauffer rescued from a cliff at Three Arch Bay the woman then donated 10,000 to Stauffer's organization. In 1976, after the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals vacated their Laguna Canyon...
The American Society of Mammalogists was founded in 1919 to encourage the study of mammals. There are over 4,500 members, primarily professional scientists who emphasize the importance of public policy and education. There are several ASM meetings held each year, and the society manages several publications such as the Journal of Mammalogy, Special Publications, Mammalian Species, and Society Pamphlets. The best known of these is the Journal of Mammalogy. The ASM also maintains The Mammal Image Library which contains more than 1,300 mammal slides. A president, vice president, recording secretary, secretary-treasurer, and journal editor are all elected by the members to be officers of the society. In addition, ASM is composed of thirty one committees, including the Animal Care and Use Committee, the Conservation Awards Committee, the International Relations Committee, and the Publications Committee. It also provides numerous grants and awards for research and studies on mammals. These awards can go to both scientists and students. The ASM also lists employment opportunities for their members.  History  Milo Herrick Spaulding was a charter member.  Mammal Diversity Database... 
This is a list of the mammal species of Vietnam. There are at least 290 mammal species in the country. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed on the respective IUCN Red List:  Order: Proboscidea  The elephants comprise three living species and are the largest living land animals. Family: Elephantidae Genus: Elephas Asian elephant, E. maximus EN Indian elephant, E. m. indicus  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that live in rivers and marine wetlands. It includes four extant species, three manatees and the dugong, and the extinct Stellar's sea cow. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, D. dugon VU  Order: Scandentia  The treeshrews are small mammals native to the tropical forests of Southeast Asia. Although called treeshrews, they are not true shrews and are not all arboreal. Family: Tupaiidae Genus: Dendrogale Northern smooth-tailed treeshrew, D. murina LC Genus: Tupaia Northern treeshrew, T. belangeri LC  Order: Dermoptera  The two species of colugos make up the order Dermoptera. They are...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in the Seychelles. Of the mammal species in the Seychelles, two are critically endangered and two are vulnerable. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, D. dugon VU  Order: Chiroptera  The bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20 of all mammals. Family: Pteropodidae Subfamily: Pteropodinae Genus: Pteropus Aldabra flying fox, Pteropus aldabrensis CR Seychelles fruit bat, Pteropus seychellensis LC Family: Molossidae Genus: Chaerephon Little free...
The following is a list of native wild mammal species recorded in Antarctica. There are 23 mammal species in Antarctica, all of which are marine. Three are considered endangered, one is vulnerable, eight are listed as data deficient, and one has not yet been evaluated. Domesticated species, such as the dogs formerly present, are not included. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature those on the left are used here, those in the second column in some other articles:  Order: Carnivora  There are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition. The southern elephant seal is believed to be the largest carnivoran of all time bulls typically weigh 2,200 to 4,000 kilograms . The lobodontine seals comprise about 80 of the global biomass of pinnipeds, a reflection of the high productivity of the Southern Ocean all have circumpolar distributions surrounding Antarctica and breed on pack ice or shore-fast ice. Antarctic fur seals and southern elephant seals, in contrast...
Hyraxes from Ancient Greek  hrax 'shrew-mouse', also called dassies, are small, stout, thickset, herbivorous mammals in the family Procaviidae within the order Hyracoidea. Hyraxes are well-furred, rotund animals with short tails. Modern hyraxes are typically between 30 and 70 cm in length and weigh between 2 and 5 kg . They are superficially similar to marmots or over-large pikas but are much more closely related to elephants and sirenians. Hyraxes have a life span of 9 to 14 years. Both types of rock hyrax live on rock outcrops, including cliffs in Ethiopia and isolated granite outcrops called koppies in southern Africa. Almost all hyraxes are limited to Africa the exception is the rock hyrax which is also found in adjacent parts of the Middle East. Hyracoids were a much more diverse group in the past encompassing species considerably larger than modern hyraxes. The largest known extinct hyracoid, Titanohyrax ultimus, has been estimated to weigh 600-1,300 kilograms , comparable to a water buffalo.  Characteristics  Hyraxes retain or have redeveloped a number of primitive mammalian characteristics...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in the Philippines.  Order: Artiodactyla   Order: Carnivora   Order: Chiroptera   Order: Dermoptera   Order: Eulipotyphla   Order: Pholidota   Order: Primates   Order: Rodentia   Order: Scandentia   Order: Sirenia   See also  Category:Endemic fauna of the Philippines Wildlife of the Philippines List of threatened species of the Philippines Wild pigs of the Philippines List of birds of the Philippines  References   External links  Animal Diversity Web. University of Michigan Museum of Zoology. 1995-2006. Retrieved May 22, 2007.
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Ghana. Of the mammal species in Ghana, five are endangered, eleven are vulnerable, and fourteen are near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Tubulidentata  The order Tubulidentata consists of a single species, the aardvark. Tubulidentata are characterised by their teeth which lack a pulp cavity and form thin tubes which are continuously worn down and replaced. Family: Orycteropodidae Genus: Orycteropus Aardvark, O. afer LC  Order: Hyracoidea  The hyraxes are any of four species of fairly small, thickset, herbivorous mammals in the order Hyracoidea. About the size of a domestic cat they are well-furred, with rounded bodies and a stumpy tail. They are native to Africa and the Middle East. Family: Procaviidae Genus: Dendrohyrax Western tree hyrax, D. dorsalis LC Genus: Procavia Cape hyrax, P. capensis...
A list of mammals of Lithuania published in 1997 contains 68 species that are present in the country, including 14 bat species, 21 rodents, four shrews, two lagomorphs, one hedgehog, 13 carnivores, five whales and eight ungulates. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed on the IUCN Red List: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Rodentia  Rodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be kept short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg . Suborder: Sciurognathi Family: Castoridae Genus: Castor Eurasian beaver, C. fiber LC Family: Sciuridae Subfamily: Sciurinae Family: Gliridae Subfamily: Leithiinae Genus: Dryomys Forest dormouse, D. nitedula LC Genus: Eliomys Garden dormouse, Eliomys quercinus VU Genus: Muscardinus Hazel dormouse, Muscardinus avellanarius LRnt Subfamily: Glirinae Genus: Glis...
Most mammals are viviparous, giving birth to live young. However, the five species of monotreme, the platypuses and the echidnas, lay eggs. The monotremes have a sex determination system different from that of most other mammals. In particular, the sex chromosomes of a platypus are more like those of a chicken than those of a therian mammal. The mammary glands of mammals are specialized to produce milk, a liquid used by newborns as their primary source of nutrition. The monotremes branched early from other mammals and do not have the teats seen in most mammals, but they do have mammary glands. The young lick the milk from a mammary patch on the mother's belly. Viviparous mammals are in the subclass Theria those living today are in the Marsupialia and Placentalia infraclasses. A marsupial has a short gestation period, typically shorter than its estrous cycle, and gives birth to an underdeveloped newborn that then undergoes further development in many species, this takes place within a pouch-like sac, the marsupium, located in the front of the mother's abdomen. Some placentals, e.g. guinea pig, give birth to fully developed young, usually after long gestation...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Vanuatu. There are 22 mammal species in Vanuatu, of which one is endangered and four are vulnerable. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, Dugong dugon VU  Order: Chiroptera  The bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20 of all mammals. Family: Pteropodidae Subfamily: Pteropodinae Genus: Pteropus Vanuatu flying fox, Pteropus anetianus LRlc Banks flying fox, Pteropus fundatus VU Insular flying-fox, Pteropus tonganus LRlc Subfamily: Macroglossinae...
Pinnipeds , commonly known as seals, are widely distributed and diverse carnivorous, fin-footed, semiaquatic, mostly marine mammals, belonging to the clade Pinnipedia. They comprise the extant families Odobenidae , Otariidae , and Phocidae , with 34 extant species and more than 50 extinct species described from fossils. While seals were historically thought to have descended from two ancestral lines, molecular evidence supports them as a monophyletic group . Pinnipeds belong to the suborder Caniformia of the order Carnivora their closest living relatives are musteloids , having diverged about 50 million years ago. Seals range in size from the 1 m and 45 kg Baikal seal to the 5 m and 3,200 kg southern elephant seal. Several species exhibit sexual dimorphism. They have streamlined bodies and four limbs that are modified into flippers. Though not as fast in the water as dolphins, seals are more flexible and agile. Otariids primarily use their front...
This is a list of mammals of Ohio.  Native species  There are 66 native mammal species of Ohio.  Non-native species  There are 5 non-native mammal species in Ohio.  See also  Lists of mammals by region List of U.S. state mammals List of birds of Ohio  Notes   References 
Abdominal hair is the hair that grows on the abdomen of humans and non-human mammals, in the region between the pubic area and the thorax . The growth of abdominal hair follows the same pattern on nearly all mammals, vertically from the pubic area upwards and from the thorax downwards to the navel. The abdominal hair of non-human mammals is part of the pelage . It connects pubic hair and chest hair.  In humans  Before puberty, the abdominal region of both males and females is covered with very fine vellus hair. In response to rising levels of androgens during and after puberty, the skin of the abdomen begins to produce coarser, longer and more pigmented hair . This process primarily affects men. Initially, hair grows in a vertical line from the pubic area up to the navel and from the thorax down to the navel. The development of abdominal hair normally begins in the final stages of puberty. With some men, the abdominal hair will stay within a clearly defined vertical line, but in others, terminal hair will appear laterally as well as vertically, particularly in the area around the navel. This lateral spreading can continue...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Bermuda. Of the mammal species in Bermuda, one is endangered and one is vulnerable. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: The following tags have been used to highlight several categories of occurrence: Introduced - a species introduced to Bermudas as a consequence, direct or indirect, of human actions Vagrant - a species that accidentally appears on Bermuda  Order: Rodentia  Rodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be kept short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg . Family: Muridae Subfamily: Murinae Genus: Mus House mouse, M. musculus Family: Muridae Subfamily: Murinae Genus: Rattus Brown rat, R. norvegicus Black rat, R. rattus  Order: Chiroptera  The bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20 of...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in the Comoros. Of the mammal species in the Comoros, one is critically endangered, two are vulnerable, and one is near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, Dugong dugon VU  Order: Primates  The order Primates contains humans and their closest relatives: lemurs, lorisoids, tarsiers, monkeys, and apes. Suborder: Strepsirrhini Infraorder: Lemuriformes Superfamily: Lemuroidea Family: Lemuridae Genus: Eulemur Mongoose lemur, E. mongoz CR introduced  Order: Soricomorpha  The shrew-forms are insectivorous mammals. The shrews and solenodons closely resemble mice...
This is a list of mammals of Arizona. It includes species native to the U.S. state of Arizona and mammals accidentally introduced into the state. However, it does not include domesticated animals that become feral and cause major disruptions to various ecosystems.  Opossums  Family: Didelphidae Virginia opossum, Didelphis virginiana  Shrews  Family: Soricidae North American least shrew, Cryptotis parva Crawford's gray shrew, Notiosorex crawfordi Arizona shrew, Sorex arizonae Cinereus shrew, Sorex cinereus Merriam's shrew, Sorex merriami Montane shrew, Sorex monticolus American water shrew, Sorex palustris  Bats  Family: Molossidae Western mastiff bat, Eumops perotis Pocketed free-tailed bat, Nyctinomops femorosaccus Big free-tailed bat, Nyctinomops macrotis Mexican free-tailed bat, Tadarida brasiliensis Family: Phyllostomidae Mexican long-tongued bat, Choeronycteris mexicana Greater long-nosed bat, Leptonycteris nivalis Lesser long-nosed bat, Leptonycteris yerbabuenae California leaf-nosed bat, Macrotus californicus Family: Vespertilionidae Hoary bat, Aeorestes cinereus Pallid bat, Antrozous pallidus Townsend's big-eared bat, Corynorhinus townsendii Big brown bat, Eptesicus...
This list of mammals of Syria is derived from IUCN Red Lists. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status:  Order: Artiodactyla  The even-toed ungulates are ungulates whose weight is borne about equally by the third and fourth toes, rather than mostly or entirely by the third as in perissodactyls. There are about 220 artiodactyl species, including many that are of great economic importance to humans. Family: Bovidae Subfamily: Antilopinae Genus: Bubalus Water buffalo, B. bubalis Genus: Gazella Mountain gazelle, G. gazella EN Arabian sand gazelle, G. marica VU Goitered gazelle, G. subgutturosa VU Subfamily: Caprinae Genus: Capra Nubian ibex, C. nubiana VU reintroduced Family: Cervidae Subfamily: Capreolinae Genus: Capreolus Roe deer, C. capreolus LC  Order: Carnivora  There are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition. Suborder: Feliformia Family: Felidae Subfamily: Felinae Genus: Caracal Caracal, C. caracal LC Genus: Felis Jungle cat, F. chaus LC African wildcat, F. lybica...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Somalia. There are 192 identified mammal species or subspecies in Somalia, of which two are critically endangered, one is endangered, twelve are vulnerable, and four are near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Afrosoricida  The order Afrosoricida contains the golden moles of southern Africa and the tenrecs of Madagascar and Africa, two families of small mammals that were traditionally part of the order Insectivora. Family: Chrysochloridae Subfamily: Amblysominae Genus: Calcochloris Somali golden mole, C. tytonis DD  Order: Macroscelidea  Often called sengis, the elephant shrews or jumping shrews are native to southern Africa. Their common English name derives from their elongated flexible snout and their resemblance to the true shrews. Family: Macroscelididae Genus: Galegeeska...
The domestication of small mammals to keep as pets is a relatively recent development, arising only after large-scale industrialization. Historically, Western society was more agrarian than today, with rodents as a whole seen as vermin that were carriers for disease and a threat to crops. Animals that hunted such pests, such as terriers, ferrets and cats, were prized. Many small animals kept as household pets are rodents, including: fancy mice, fancy rats, hamsters , gerbils , common degus, common chinchillas, and guinea pigs . Non-rodents, including rabbits, hedgehogs and sugar gliders, are also kept. Some of these small mammals are prohibited from being kept as pets in certain jurisdictions for being invasive California, Hawaii, Alberta and New Zealand have strict regulations to protect their native environments and agricultural operations. Gerbils, degus, and domesticated rats have various prohibitions on their ownership.  Nomenclature  The definition of a small mammal differs, but is generally accepted as all mammals weighing less than 5 kilograms . The term pocket pet is used for a...
Eusociality , 'good' or 'true', also 'social' is the highest level of organization of sociality. It is defined by the following characteristics: cooperative brood care including care of offspring from other individuals, overlapping generations within a colony of adults, and a division of labor into reproductive and non-reproductive groups. The division of labor creates specialized behavioral groups within an animal society, sometimes called castes. Eusociality is distinguished from all other social systems because individuals of at least one caste usually lose the ability to perform behaviors characteristic of individuals in another caste. Narrow definitions, such as that of Crespi  Yagena, require that an irreversibly sterile caste be present, but this is not universally agreed on. Eusocial colonies can be viewed as superorganisms. Eusociality has evolved among the insects, crustaceans, trematodes and mammals. It is most widespread in the Hymenoptera and in termites. A colony has caste differences: queens and reproductive males take the roles of the sole reproducers, while soldiers and workers work together to create and maintain a living...
This list provides information about the status of mammals alive today in Egypt. Three are critically endangered, three are endangered, eight are vulnerable, and one is near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed on the respective IUCN Red Lists:  Order: Tubulidentata  The order Tubulidentata consists of a single species, the aardvark. Tubulidentata are characterised by their teeth which lack a pulp cavity and form thin tubes which are continuously worn down and replaced. Family: Orycteropodidae Genus: Orycteropus Aardvark, O. afer LC  Order: Hyracoidea  The hyraxes are any of four species of fairly small, thickset, herbivorous mammals in the order Hyracoidea. About the size of a domestic cat they are well furred, with rounded bodies and a stumpy tail. They are native to Africa and the Middle East. Family: Procaviidae Genus: Heterohyrax Yellow-spotted rock hyrax, H. brucei LC Genus: Procavia Cape hyrax, P. capensis LC  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Pitcairn. There are four mammal species in Pitcairn, all of which are marine mammals of the order Cetacea. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Cetacea  The order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater. Suborder: Mysticeti Family: Balaenopteridae Subfamily: Megapterinae Genus: Megaptera Humpback whale, Megaptera novaeangliae VU Suborder: Odontoceti Superfamily: Platanistoidea Family: Ziphidae Subfamily: Hyperoodontinae Genus: Mesoplodon Ginkgo-toothed beaked whale, Mesoplodon ginkgodens DD Family: Delphinidae Genus: Stenella Spinner dolphin, Stenella longirostris LRcd Genus: Lagenodelphis Fraser's dolphin, Lagenodelphis...
There are forty-eight mammal species in Belarus, of which two are endangered, four are vulnerable, and three are near threatened. One of the species listed for Belarus can no longer be found in the wild. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Rodentia  Rodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be kept short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg . Suborder: Sciurognathi Family: Castoridae Genus: Castor Eurasian beaver, C. fiber LC Family: Sciuridae Subfamily: Sciurinae Tribe: Pteromyini Genus: Pteromys Siberian flying squirrel, P. volans LC possibly extirpated Family: Gliridae Subfamily: Leithiinae Genus: Dryomys Forest dormouse, D. nitedula LC Genus: Muscardinus Hazel dormouse, M. avellanarius...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Oman. There are at least 62 mammal species in Oman that have been assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature , of these, one is critically endangered, four are endangered, eight are vulnerable, and two are near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:  Order: Hyracoidea  The hyraxes are any of four species of fairly small, thickset, herbivorous mammals in the order Hyracoidea. About the size of a domestic cat they are well-furred, with rounded bodies and a stumpy tail. They are native to Africa and the Middle East. Family: Procaviidae Genus: Procavia Cape hyrax, P. capensis LC  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, D. dugon VU  Order: Rodentia  Rodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Nicaragua. Of the mammal species in Nicaragua, two are endangered, four are vulnerable, and four are near threatened. One species has been classified as extinct. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Subclass: Theria   Infraclass: Metatheria   Order: Didelphimorphia  Didelphimorphia is the order of common opossums of the Western Hemisphere. Opossums probably diverged from the basic South American marsupials in the late Cretaceous or early Paleocene. They are small to medium-sized marsupials, about the size of a large house cat, with a long snout and prehensile tail. Family: Didelphidae Subfamily: Caluromyinae Genus: Caluromys Derby's woolly opossum, Caluromys derbianus VU Subfamily: Didelphinae Genus: Chironectes Water opossum, Chironectes minimus LRnt Genus: Didelphis Common opossum, Didelphis marsupialis LRlc...
In September 2016, the International Union for Conservation of Nature listed 783 data deficient mammalian species. Of all evaluated mammalian species, 14 are listed as data deficient. The IUCN also lists 31 mammalian subspecies as data deficient. Of the subpopulations of mammals evaluated by the IUCN, four species andor subpopulations have been assessed as data deficient. This is a complete list of data deficient mammalian species and subspecies evaluated by the IUCN. Species and subspecies which have data deficient subpopulations are indicated. Where possible common names for taxa are given while links point to the scientific name used by the IUCN.  Primates  There are 20 species and 26 subspecies of primate evaluated as data deficient.  Gibbons  Subspecies Yunnan lar gibbon  Lemurs  Species Lesser iron-gray dwarf lemur  Tarsiers  Lariang tarsier  Old World monkeys  Species Osman Hill's mangabey Subspecies  New World monkeys  Species Subspecies  Cetartiodactyls  Cetartiodactyla includes dolphins, whales and even-toed ungulates. There are 61 species, one subspecies, and three subpopulations of cetartiodactyl evaluated as data deficient...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Mauritius. Of the mammal species in Mauritius, one is critically endangered, three are vulnerable, and one is considered to be extinct. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, D. dugon VU  Order: Chiroptera  The bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20 of all mammals. Family: Pteropodidae Subfamily: Pteropodinae Genus: Pteropus Mauritian flying fox, P. niger EN Rodrigues flying fox, P. rodricensis EN Small Mauritian flying fox, P. subniger...
This is a list of mammal species recorded in Japan excluding domesticated and captive populations. Of the 172 species of mammal found in Japan-112 native terrestrial mammals those that are endemic are identified below this number includes 37 species of bat, 19 introduced species, 40 species of Cetacea, and the dugong-161 are listed for the Japan region on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species: of these, three taxa are critically endangered Muennink's spiny rat, Yanbaru whiskered bat, and gloomy tube-nosed bat, twenty-two are endangered, eight are vulnerable, and eleven are near threatened the Japanese sea lion and Bonin or Sturdee's pipistrelle are evaluated as extinct. Although on a global level the grey wolf is assessed as least concern, the two Japanese subspecies, Hokkaido wolf and Japanese wolf, are further recent extinctions the 2020 Japanese Ministry of the Environment Red List also lists as extinct the Okinawa flying fox and Japanese river otter, as well as the subspecies Miyako little horseshoe bat. As of January 2023, for their protection, fifteen species and subspecies have been designated national endangered species by cabinet order in accordance with the 1992...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Finland. There are sixty-one mammal species in Finland, of which, one is endangered, three are vulnerable, and five are near threatened. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Rodentia  Rodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40 of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be kept short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg . Suborder: Sciurognathi Family: Castoridae Genus: Castor American beaver, C. canadensis LC introduced European beaver, C. fiber LC Family: Sciuridae Subfamily: Sciurinae Tribe: Sciurini Genus: Sciurus Red squirrel, Sciurus vulgaris NT Tribe: Pteromyini Genus: Pteromys Siberian flying squirrel, Pteromys volans LRnt Family: Gliridae Subfamily: Leithiinae Genus: Eliomys...
This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Brunei. The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature: Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:  Order: Sirenia  Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered. Family: Dugongidae Genus: Dugong Dugong, D. dugon VU  Order: Scandentia  The treeshrews are small mammals native to the tropical forests of Southeast Asia. Although called treeshrews, they are not true shrews and are not all arboreal. Family: Tupaiidae Genus: Tupaia Long-footed treeshrew, T. longipes LC Painted treeshrew, T. picta LC Large treeshrew, T. tana LC  Order: Dermoptera  The two species of colugos make up the order Dermoptera. They are arboreal gliding mammals found in Southeast Asia. Family: Cynocephalidae Genus: Galeopterus Sunda...
Laurasiatheria is a superorder of placental mammals that groups together true insectivores , bats , carnivorans, pangolins , even-toed ungulates , odd-toed ungulates , and all their extinct relatives . From systematics and phylogenetic perspectives, it is subdivided into order Eulipotyphla and clade Scrotifera. It is a sister group to Euarchontoglires with which it forms the magnorder Boreoeutheria. Laurasiatheria was discovered on the basis of the similar gene sequences shared by the mammals belonging to it no anatomical features have yet been found that unite the group, although a few have been suggested such as a small coracoid process, a simplified hindgut , high intelligence, lack of grasping hands though mimicry of grasping is observed in felines and allantoic vessels that are large to moderate in size. The Laurasiatheria clade is based on DNA sequence analyses and retrotransposon presenceabsence data. The superorder originated on the northern supercontinent of Laurasia, after it split from Gondwana when Pangaea broke up. Its most recent...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 909 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
In machine learning, a neural network or artificial neural network is a computational model inspired by the structure and functions of biological neural networks. A neural network consists of connected units or nodes called artificial neurons, which loosely model the neurons in the brain. These are connected by edges, which model the synapses in the brain. Each artificial neuron receives signals from connected neurons, then processes them and sends a signal to other connected neurons. The signal is a real number, and the output of each neuron is computed by some non-linear function of the totality of its inputs, called the activation function. The strength of the signal at each connection is determined by a weight, which adjusts as part of the training process. Groups of neurons are aggregated into layers. Each layer performs a transformation on its inputs. Signals travel from the first layer to the last layer , typically passing through multiple intermediate layers . A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least two hidden layers. Deep neural networks are capable of learning sophisticated hierarchical...
In machine learning, deep learning focuses on utilizing multilayered neural networks to perform tasks such as classification, regression, and representation learning. The field takes inspiration from biological neuroscience and revolves around stacking artificial neurons into layers and training them to process data. The adjective deep refers to the use of multiple layers ranging from three to several hundred or thousands in the network. Methods used can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised. Some common deep learning network architectures include fully connected networks, deep belief networks, recurrent neural networks, recurrent Random neural networks, convolutional neural networks, generative adversarial networks, transformers, and neural radiance fields. These architectures have been applied to fields including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, machine translation, bioinformatics, drug design, medical image analysis, climate science, material inspection and board game programs, where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases surpassing human expert performance. Early forms of neural networks were inspired by information...
Spiking neural networks are artificial neural networks that mimic natural neural networks. These models leverage timing of discrete spikes as the main information carrier. In addition to neuronal and synaptic state, SNNs incorporate the concept of time into their operating model. The idea is that neurons in the SNN do not transmit information at each propagation cycle as it happens with typical multi-layer perceptron networks, but rather transmit information only when a membrane potential-an intrinsic quality of the neuron related to its membrane electrical charge-reaches a specific value, called the threshold. As a neuron integrates its inputs over time, its membrane potential increases or decreases once it reaches the threshold, the neuron fires and generates a signal that travels to other neurons, which in turn increase or decrease their own potentials in response. A neuron model that fires at the moment of threshold crossing is also called a spiking neuron model. While spike rates can be considered the analogue of the variable output of a traditional ANN, neurobiology research indicated that high speed processing cannot be performed solely through a rate-based scheme...
A neural network, also called a neuronal network, is an interconnected population of neurons typically containing multiple neural circuits. Biological neural networks are studied to understand the organization and functioning of nervous systems. Artificial neural networks, which are defined as machine learning models, are loosely inspired by biological neural networks. They consist of artificial neurons, which are created through mathematical functions that are designed to be mimic to the mechanisms used by neural circuits.  Key biology  A biological neural network is composed of a group of chemically connected or functionally associated neurons. A single neuron may be connected to many other neurons and the total number of neurons and connections in a network may be extensive. Connections, called synapses, are usually formed from axons to dendrites, though dendrodendritic synapses and other connections are possible. Apart from electrical signaling, there are other forms of signaling that arise from neurotransmitter diffusion. The origin of a neural network begins with a simple neuron. Nerve cells, or neurons, are unique in that they have the ability to translate electrical signals...
A feedforward neural network is an artificial neural network in which information flows in a single direction - inputs are multiplied by weights to obtain outputs . It contrasts with a recurrent neural network, in which loops allow information from later processing stages to feed back to earlier stages. Feedforward multiplication is essential for backpropagation, because feedback, where the outputs feed back to the very same inputs and modify them, forms an infinite loop which is not possible to differentiate through backpropagation. This nomenclature appears to be a point of confusion between some computer scientists and scientists in other fields studying brain networks. In reality, such textures and outlines would not be represented by single nodes, but rather by associated weight patterns of multiple nodes.  Mathematical foundations   Activation function  The two historically common activation functions are both sigmoids, and are described by y  v i   tanh   v i...
Graph neural networks are artificial neural networks designed for tasks whose inputs are graphs. Because graphs usually do not have a canonical ordering of their nodes, GNN architectures are commonly designed to be permutation equivariant: reordering the nodes in the input reorders the corresponding node representations in the same way. For graph-level prediction tasks, GNNs typically use a permutation-invariant readout function, whose output is unchanged by the ordering of the nodes. A prominent example is molecular drug design. Molecules can be represented as graphs, with nodes for atoms and edges for atomic bonds, often including known chemical properties as features. Inputs may thus differ in size, due to varying number of atoms and bonds. A graph-level task may be to predict the efficacy of a given molecule for a specific medical application, such as eliminating E. coli bacteria. The key design element of GNNs is the use of pairwise message passing, such that graph nodes iteratively update their representations by exchanging information with their neighbors. Several GNN architectures have been proposed, which implement different flavors of message passing, started by...
Rita Ferro is a Portuguese writer, journalist, playwright and teacher.  Early life  Rita Maria Roquette de Quadros Ferro Ocha was born on 26 February 1955 in the Portuguese capital of Lisbon. She is the daughter of writer and philosopher Antnio Quadros and Paulina Roquette Ferro. Her paternal grandmother was the writer Fernanda de Castro, and her paternal grandfather was Antnio Ferro, a writer, journalist, and politician who was associated with the repressive Estado Novo regime in the mid-20th Century. Ferro studied design, specializing in marketing. Following internships in Brazil, Spain, the USA and the United Kingdom, she taught advertising at the Instituto de Arte, Design e Empresa Institute of Art, Design and Enterprise - IADE, which her father founded in 1969. She also worked as an advertising writer for Reader's Digest in Portugal and other publishers.  Writing  Ferro began her literary career in 1990, with the publication of the novel O N na Garganta, which sold more than 50,000 copies. Since then, she has written more than 20 novels, as well as biographies, youth literature and plays. She has been a judge for literary awards and at film festivals and...
The Montreal Children's Theatre is a children's theatre company in Montreal, Quebec. Founded in 1933 by Dorothy Davis and Violet Walters, the school is still in operation as of 2026. Walters and Davis started MCT not necessarily to create young actors and actresses, but with the premise that good speech, self-esteem and confidence were primary goals . MCT has presented over 700 stage productions to more than a quarter of a million children. A prominent alumnus of MCT is the actor William Shatner.  History  The first class at MCT in 1933 had less than 25 students and was held in a basement. The theatre was run by Davis and Walters until 1991. It was then managed by Sheila April, a former student, until 2006. In that year, Leigh Janson Cooke and Ryan Bowels . In 2019, Sandra Holder became the new president. Over 10,000 Montrealers have enjoyed classes at The Children's Theatre since the school was founded in 1933 by Dorothy Davis and Violet Walters. Some have gone onto professional careers in motion pictures, television and the stage. Many have obtained roles in TV and radio commercials both as children and adults.  Timeline  1933-1991 - Founded and ran by Violet...
Watcom CC is an integrated development environment product from Watcom International Corporation for the C, C, and Fortran programming languages. Watcom CC was a commercial product until it was discontinued, then released under the Sybase Open Watcom Public License as Open Watcom CC. It features tools for developing and debugging code for DOS, OS2, Windows, and Linux operating systems, which are based upon 16-bit x86, 32-bit IA-32, or 64-bit x86-64 compatible processors.  History  In 2000, Sybase, who owned Watcom International Corporation halted the commercial sale of the Watcom CC and Fortran compilers. In 2003, SciTech Software Inc, a customer of Sybase, negotiated wth Sybase, to have the code for the compilers released as an open source project under a new name, Open Watcom. The Watcom CC compiler and the Watcom Fortran compiler were made available free of charge as the Open Watcom package. The last stable version endorsed by the original openwatcom.org team was 1.9, released in June 2010. A community-based forked version 2.0 with continuous updates under the same version moniker was released after the original codebase...
The 1968 NCAA College Division football season was the 13th season of college football in the United States organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association at the NCAA College Division level.  Conference standings   Rankings  College Division teams were ranked in polls by the AP and by UPI . The national champion for each season were determined by the final poll rankings, published at or near the end of the regular season, before any bowl games were played.  Small college final polls  In 1968, the wire services disagreed as to the champion. UPI picked San Diego State as number one, while the AP panel chose North Dakota State. San Diego State did not play in the postseason, while North Dakota State later won the Pecan Bowl to finish 10-0.  Bowl games  The postseason consisted of four bowl games as regional finals, all played on December 14. The Boardwalk Bowl succeeded the Tangerine Bowl, and the Pecan Bowl moved within Texas, from Abilene to Arlington. In 1969, the Grantland Rice Bowl moved from Murfreesboro, Tennessee to Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  See also  1968 NCAA University...
Valerie Still is an American former professional women's basketball player with the Washington Mystics of the WNBA and the Columbus Quest of the American Basketball League . During her four years at the University of Kentucky, she scored more points than any other basketball player, male or female, with 2,763 points. Afterwards she went abroad, playing in Italy for 12 years . During that time, she earned an Italian Professional Basketball Championship. She returned to the United States in 1996 and was drafted by the Columbus Quest of the fledgling ABL. She led the Quest to back-to-back championships, and was named MVP of the Championship Series both times. When the ABL folded during its third season, she went on to play in the WNBA for the Washington Mystics. In 1995, she married Rob Lock, also a former University of Kentucky basketball player. They met while Still was interviewing his teammate, Darryl Dawkins, on her television program in Italy. In 1996, they had a child named Aaron Lock. The couple divorced in 2007. Her brother, Art Still, was a defensive end for the University of Kentucky Wildcats football team from 1973 to 1977 and went on...
The Gangadhar Stone Inscription of Vivavarman is an epigraphic record documenting that documents of a temple at Gangadhar town in the fifth century during the reign of the Aulikara king Vivavarman.  Location  Gangadhar is located in Jhalawar district, Kota division, Rajasthan, India. The town occupies an old fortified and moated site on the banks of the Kali Sindh River.  Publication  The text of the Gangadhar inscription was edited and published by John Faithfull Fleet in 1888. It was subsequently edited by D. C. Sircar.  Description and Contents  The inscription, written in Sanskrit, records the building of a temple of Viu and an accompanying shrine for the mother goddesses or Mtkas by a king's minister named Mayrkaka. The goddess shrine is specifically described as a terrifying abode of the divine Mothers . The inscription is dated anno 480, on the bright thirteenth day of the month Krttika. The year corresponds to 423-24 CE.  Historical significance  The Gangadhar inscription is important for the history of Indian religion because, in the description of the Mother goddess shrine, it provides the first documented use of the term akin...
Hato Press is a publishing house based in London of the United Kingdom. It has published books by Jean Jullien and others, as well as zines by the founders of Studio Moniker. In addition to publishing zines and books, it also hosts other programming like risograph workshops and runs the design studios Hato Studio and Hato Labo.  History  Hato Press was founded in 2009, by Jackson Lam and Ken Kirton, in order to make printing and production much more accessible for artists. The two had previously been at Central Saint Martins. In 2010, Hato Press began a series called Studio Cookbook, a recipe book for busy creatives curated by a variety of artists sharing what they cook and eat while in their studios. In 2015, Hato Press published Cooking With Scorsese, a book full of stills from movies where food is a central element. Several volumes have since been published, including films not just by Martin Scorsese but other directors. The series also includes a website as a companion piece. In 2021, an actual cookbook consisting of recipes by 46 international chefs was published. In 2023, after three total volumes, a larger collection, titled Cooking With Scorsese: The Collection, was published...
The Copa 2014 M Clausura was the 71st staging of the Copa M, the 44th staging in the professional era and is the fourth tournament played since the 1996-97 edition. This tournament started on January 14, 2014, and concluded on April 9, 2014. The winner was Tigres and he was scheduled to face Monarcas Morelia, who won the Apertura 2013 edition, in a home-to-home series on July 9 and 12 to qualify as Mexico 3 to the 2015 Copa Libertadores.  Participants Clausura 2014  This tournament featured the clubs from the Liga M who did not participate in the 2013-14 CONCACAF Champions League , and the teams who participated in the 2014 Copa Libertadores did not participate as well. The first 13 Ascenso M teams in the classification phase during the Apertura 2013 season participated.  Tiebreakers  If two or more clubs are equal on points on completion of the group matches, the following criteria are applied to determine the rankings: superior goal difference higher number of goals scored scores of the group matches played among the clubs in question higher number of goals scored away in the group matches...
Monic Karungi known online as Mona Kizz 19971998 - May 2022 was a Ugandan social media personality who died after falling from a high-rise building in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Dubai authorities classified her death as a suicide. Her case later gained significant public attention when it was cited in relation to the DubaiPortaPotty controversy and investigated by BBC Africa Eye as a potential case of human trafficking.  Background  Karungi was a 24-year-old Ugandan national known on Instagram for her fashion and lifestyle content under the username Mona Kizz. She had traveled to Dubai in early 2022, reportedly to seek modeling and promotional work.  Death  In May 2022, a video circulated on social media showing a woman falling from a high-rise building in Dubai. Ugandan media later identified the woman as Monic Karungi. The authorities in the United Arab Emirates confirmed her death and officially recorded it as a suicide. No official evidence suggesting homicide or the involvement of a third party was released.  BBC Africa Eye investigation  In 2025, BBC Africa Eye released a documentary titled Death in Dubai: DubaiPortaPotty, produced by journalist Runako Celina...
Frederick Clarke Withers was an English architect in America, especially renowned for his Gothic Revival ecclesiastical designs. For portions of his professional career, he partnered with fellow immigrant Calvert Vaux both worked in the office of Andrew Jackson Downing in Newburgh, New York, where they began their careers following Downing's accidental death. Withers greatly participated in the introduction of the High Victorian Gothic style to the United States.  Biography  Frederick Clarke Withers was born in Shepton Mallet, Somersetshire. He had a brother, Robert Jewell Withers, who also became an architect. He studied architecture in England for eight years under Thomas Henry Wyatt. He came to the United States in February 1852 at the invitation of the prominent American horticulturist and burgeoning architect Andrew Jackson Downing. Withers and Downing later became family, as they married sisters: Emily Augusta and Caroline Elizabeth DeWindt, respectively. The sisters were great-grandchildren of President John Adams, and grandnieces of John Quincy Adams. Downing drowned a few months after Withers joined his office on July 28, 1852, attempting...
St. Joseph's Church is a historic church located at 1355 North Main Street in Fall River, Massachusetts. Designed by notable church architect Patrick C. Keely, it was built in 1880 in the Gothic Revival style. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1983, the same day as St. Patrick's.  History  The parish was founded to accommodate the growing numbers of Catholics who had settled in the northern section of the city in the 1870s to work in the cotton mills, including the Border City, Narragansett, Mechanics, Sagamore Mills. It was split off from St. Mary's in 1873.  Rev. William H. Bric  The first pastor was Reverend William H. Bric. Bric was born in Tralee, County Kerry, Ireland, in 1841, and made his preparatory studies for the priesthood at Killarney, and then at Cambrai, in southern France, after which he came to this country and was sent by the then Right Reverend Bishop Francis Patrick McFarland to the Seminary of Saint Sulpice at Baltimore, Maryland, where he was ordained to the priesthood. After curacies at Woonsocket, Rhode Island, and at the Providence Cathedral, he was named as pastor for Harrisville and Slatersville, Rhode Island, remaining in...
The 2021-22 Rutgers Scarlet Knights women's basketball team represented Rutgers University during the 2021-22 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. The Scarlet Knights, led by 27th-year head coach C. Vivian Stringer, played their home games at the Jersey Mike's Arena, as a member of the Big Ten Conference. They finished the season 11-20, 3-14 in Big Ten play to finish in thirteenth place. As the thirteenth seed in the Big Ten women's tournament, they defeated Penn State in the first round before losing to Indiana in the second round. They were not invited to the NCAA tournament or the WNIT.  Previous season  The Scarlet Knights finished the season 14-5, 10-3 in Big Ten play to finish in third place. They received a double-bye into the quarterfinals of the Big Ten women's tournament when they lost to Iowa. They received an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. As the six seed in the Mercado Regional they lost to BYU in the first round to end their season.  Roster   Schedule   Rankings  The Coaches Poll did not release a Week 2 poll, and the AP Poll did not release a poll after the NCAA Tournament.  References 
Mariahilf German pronunciation:  Viennese: Mariahf Mary's help is the 6th municipal district of Vienna, Austria . It is near the center of Vienna and was established as a district in 1850. Mariahilf is a heavily populated urban area with many residential buildings. It has a population of 31,621 within an area of 1.48 square kilometres .  Location  Mariahilf is located southwest of Vienna's centre . In the north, Mariahilfer Strae, Vienna's most important shopping street, is its border with Neubau, in the south, the valley of the Vienna River, in the west, the Grtel beltway. It consists of the five neighbourhoods : Mariahilf, Gumpendorf, Windmhle, Magdalenengrund and Laimgrube.  History  First settlements around the Roman roads of the area developed around the year 1000. In 1428, the name Im Schff is mentioned for the first time, but this name was lost when the copy of a sacral painting from Passau was installed in a chapel of the graveyard, which came to be known as Mariahilf . More intensive settlement started only after the Second Turkish...
BH Rail Corporation , formerly the Bath  Hammondsport Railroad, is a Class III shortline railroad. Initially the line served the communities of Bath, New York and Hammondsport, New York. In Bath, the railroad connected with the Erie Railroad and the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad. In 1996, the railroad was leased by the Livonia, Avon and Lakeville Railroad.  History  It was chartered in 1872 as a 3 ft narrow gauge railroad running from the Erie and Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad's interchange in Bath to Hammondsport, New York. In Hammondsport, passengers could continue north via a ferry on Keuka Lake. The railroad was converted to 4 ft 812 in standard gauge in 1889.  Erie Railroad control  The line eventually came under control of the Erie Railroad around 1903. Passenger service ended in 1917, when steamboat service on Keuka Lake was discontinued. Business continued as usual until a flood in 1935 damaged much of the railroad. Faced with having to rebuild miles of railroad, the management of the Erie Railroad instead began abandonment proceedings. Freight service was temporarily provided by trucks...
The following is a list of the awards and nominations received by the American science fiction television series Star Trek: The Original Series .  Emmy Award   Hugo Awards   Peabody Awards   Saturn Awards   TV Land Awards   Television Critics Association Awards   Writers Guild of America   See also  List of Star Trek: The Next Generation awards and nominations List of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine awards and nominations List of Star Trek: Voyager awards and nominations List of Star Trek: Enterprise awards and nominations List of Star Trek: Discovery awards and nominations  References   External links  Awards for Star Trek: The Original Series at IMDb
Nabarabi is an Odia language literary magazine of 1970s getting published from Kolkata, India. The chief patron of Nabarabi was Patiram Parija.  History  Its publication started in July 1970 and continued until December 1976 as a monthly magazine with Rabindra Kumar Parija as its editor. After the death of its patron Patiram Parija, the publication of the magazine was stopped. In 1996, it was revived by Sandhya Mohanty, granddaughter of Late Patiram Parija, with support of her husband Sarbeswar Mohanty from Bhubaneswar, Odisha. Currently the magazine is getting published irregularly with Sandhya Mohanty as its Editor.  References   External links  Official website
Lottery mathematics is used to calculate probabilities of winning or losing a lottery game. It is based primarily on combinatorics, particularly the twelvefold way and combinations without replacement. It can also be used to analyze coincidences that happen in lottery drawings, such as repeated numbers appearing across different draws. In the following P is the number of balls in a pool of balls that the winning balls are drawn from, without replacement. W is the number of winning balls drawn from the pool. T is the number of balls listed on the lottery ticket. M is the number of balls that match these balls are both on the lottery ticket and within the winning set.  Single pool of balls  Suppose there are P unique balls from which balls are to be drawn without replacement. Suppose a subset of W balls is drawn as the winning set. Suppose a subset of T balls is selected on a lottery ticket. Suppose M of the T balls from the lottery ticket are also among the W balls in the winning set. Out of the  P...
In mathematics and physics, the term generator or generating set may refer to any of a number of related concepts. The underlying concept in each case is that of a smaller set of objects, together with a set of operations that can be applied to it, that result in the creation of a larger collection of objects, called the generated set. The larger set is then said to be generated by the smaller set. It is commonly the case that the generating set has a simpler set of properties than the generated set, thus making it easier to discuss and examine. It is usually the case that properties of the generating set are in some way preserved by the act of generation likewise, the properties of the generated set are often reflected in the generating set.  List of generators  A list of examples of generating sets follow. Generating set or spanning set of a vector space: a set that spans the vector space Generating set of a group: a subset of a group that is not contained in any subgroup of the group other than the entire group Generating set of a ring: A subset S of a ring A generates A if the only subring of A containing S is A Generating set of an ideal in a ring Generating set of a...
Algebra is a branch of mathematics that deals with abstract systems, known as algebraic structures, and the manipulation of expressions within those systems. It is a generalization of arithmetic that introduces variables and algebraic operations other than the standard arithmetic operations, such as addition and multiplication. Elementary algebra is the main form of algebra taught in schools. It examines mathematical statements using variables for unspecified values and seeks to determine for which values the statements are true. To do so, it uses different methods of transforming equations to isolate variables. Linear algebra is a closely related field that investigates linear equations and combinations of them called systems of linear equations. It provides methods to find the values that solve all equations in the system at the same time, and to study the set of these solutions. Abstract algebra studies algebraic structures, which consist of a set of mathematical objects together with one or several operations defined on that set. It is a generalization of elementary and linear algebra since it allows mathematical objects other than numbers and non-arithmetic operations. It distinguishes...
In mathematics, the Riemann hypothesis is the conjecture that the Riemann zeta function has its zeros only at the negative even integers and complex numbers with real part 1 2 displaystyle textstyle frac 12 . Many consider it to be the most important unsolved problem in pure mathematics. It is of great interest in number theory because it implies results about the distribution of prime numbers. It was proposed by Bernhard Riemann, after whom it is named. There is overwhelming numerical evidence for the hypothesis, but no proof is known. The Riemann hypothesis and some of its generalizations, along with Goldbach's conjecture and the twin prime conjecture, make up Hilbert's eighth problem in David Hilbert's list of twenty-three unsolved problems it is also one of the Millennium Prize Problems of the Clay Mathematics Institute, which offers US1 million for a solution to any of them. The name is also used for some closely related analogues, some of which have been proved, such as the Riemann hypothesis for curves over finite fields, which was proved...
A mathematical exercise is a routine application of algebra or other mathematics to a stated challenge. Mathematics teachers assign mathematical exercises to develop the skills of their students. Early exercises deal with addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division of integers. Extensive courses of exercises in school extend such arithmetic to rational numbers. Various approaches to geometry have based exercises on relations of angles, segments, and triangles. The topic of trigonometry gains many of its exercises from the trigonometric identities. In college mathematics exercises often depend on functions of a real variable or application of theorems. The standard exercises of calculus involve finding derivatives and integrals of specified functions. Usually instructors prepare students with worked examples: the exercise is stated, then a model answer is provided. Often several worked examples are demonstrated before students are prepared to attempt exercises on their own. Some texts, such as those in Schaum's Outlines, focus on worked examples rather than theoretical treatment of a mathematical topic.  Overview  In primary school students start with single digit arithmetic...
In mathematics, in general topology, compactification is the process or result of making a topological space into a compact space. A compact space is a space in which every open cover of the space contains a finite subcover. The methods of compactification are various, but each is a way of controlling points from going off to infinity by in some way adding points at infinity or preventing such an escape.  An example  Consider the real line with its ordinary topology. This space is not compact in a sense, points can go off to infinity to the left or to the right. It is possible to turn the real line into a compact space by adding a single point at infinity which we will denote by . The resulting compactification is homeomorphic to a circle in the plane which, as a closed and bounded subset of the Euclidean plane, is compact. Every sequence that ran off to infinity in the real line will then converge to  in this compactification. The direction in which a number approaches infinity on the number line is still preserved on the circle for if a number approaches towards infinity from the - direction on the number line, then the...
In mathematics, the restriction of a function f displaystyle f is a new function, denoted f  A displaystyle fvert A or f  A , displaystyle fupharpoonright A, obtained by choosing a smaller domain A displaystyle A for the original function f . displaystyle f. The function f displaystyle f is then said to extend f  A . displaystyle fvert A.  Formal definition  Let f : E  F displaystyle f:Eto F be a function from a set E displaystyle E to a set F ....
In mathematics, a representation is a very general relationship that expresses similarities between mathematical objects or structures. Roughly speaking, a collection Y of mathematical objects may be said to represent another collection  of objects, provided that the properties and relationships existing among the representing objects yi conform, in some consistent way, to those existing among the corresponding represented objects xi. More specifically, given a set  of properties and relations, a -representation of some structure  is a structure Y that is the image of  under a homomorphism that preserves . The label representation is sometimes also applied to the homomorphism itself such as group homomorphism in group theory.  Representation theory  Perhaps the most well-developed example of this general notion is the subfield of abstract algebra called representation theory, which studies the representing of elements of algebraic structures by linear transformations of vector spaces.  Other examples  Although the term representation theory is well established in the algebraic sense discussed above, there are many other uses of the term representation...
In mathematics, the multiplicity of a member of a multiset is the number of times it appears in the multiset. For example, the number of times a given polynomial has a root at a given point is the multiplicity of that root. The notion of multiplicity is important to be able to count correctly without specifying exceptions . Hence the expression, counted with multiplicity. If multiplicity is ignored, this may be emphasized by counting the number of distinct elements, as in the number of distinct roots. However, whenever a set is formed, multiplicity is automatically ignored, without requiring use of the term distinct.  Multiplicity of a prime factor  In prime factorization, the multiplicity of a prime factor is its p displaystyle p -adic valuation. For example, the prime factorization of the integer 60 is 60  2  2  3  5, the multiplicity of the prime factor 2 is 2, while the multiplicity of each of the prime factors 3 and 5 is 1. Thus, 60 has four prime factors allowing for multiplicities, but only three distinct prime factors.  Multiplicity of a root... 
In mathematics, a series is, roughly speaking, an addition of infinitely many terms, one after the other. The study of series is a major part of calculus and its generalization, mathematical analysis. Series are used in most areas of mathematics, even for studying finite structures in combinatorics through generating functions. The mathematical properties of infinite series make them widely applicable in other quantitative disciplines such as physics, computer science, statistics and finance. Among the Ancient Greeks, the idea that a potentially infinite summation could produce a finite result was considered paradoxical, most famously in Zeno's paradoxes. Nonetheless, infinite series were applied practically by Ancient Greek mathematicians including Archimedes, for instance in the quadrature of the parabola. The mathematical side of Zeno's paradoxes was resolved using the concept of a limit during the 17th century, especially through the early calculus of Isaac Newton. The resolution was made more rigorous and further improved in the 19th century through the work of Carl Friedrich Gauss and Augustin-Louis Cauchy, among others, answering questions about which of these sums exist via...
In mathematics, an immersion is a differentiable function between differentiable manifolds whose differential pushforward is everywhere injective. Explicitly, f : M  N is an immersion if D p f : T p M  T f N displaystyle Dpf:TpMto TfN, is an injective function at every point p of M where Tp denotes the tangent space of a manifold  at a point p in  and Dp f is the derivative of the map f at point p. Equivalently, f is an immersion if its derivative has constant rank equal to the dimension of M: rank D p f  dim  M . displaystyle operatorname rank ,Dpfdim M. The function f itself need not be injective, only its derivative must be.  Vs. embedding  A related concept...
In mathematics, and particularly in set theory, category theory, type theory, and the foundations of mathematics, a universe is a collection that contains all the entities one wishes to consider in a given situation. In set theory, universes are often classes that contain all sets for which one hopes to prove a particular theorem. These classes can serve as inner models for various axiomatic systems such as ZFC or Morse-Kelley set theory. Universes are of critical importance to formalizing concepts in category theory inside set-theoretical foundations. For instance, the canonical motivating example of a category is Set, the category of all sets, which cannot be formalized in a set theory without some notion of a universe. In type theory, a universe is a type whose elements are types.  In a specific context  Perhaps the simplest version is that any set can be a universe, so long as the object of study is confined to that particular set. If the object of study is formed by the real numbers, then the real line R, which is the real number set, could be the universe under consideration. Implicitly, this is the universe that Georg Cantor was using when he first developed...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 921 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The terms internet church, online church, cyberchurch, and digital church refer to a wide variety of ways that Christian religious groups can use the internet to facilitate their religious activities, particularly prayer, discussion, preaching and worship services. The internet has become a site for religious experience which has raised questions related to ecclesiology. Some Christian denominations insist that an online gathering is not a real substitute for meeting in person, for example, the Roman Catholic Pontifical Council for Social Communications declared in 2002 that the virtual reality of cyberspace cannot substitute for real interpersonal community, the incarnational reality of the sacraments and the liturgy, or the immediate and direct proclamation of the gospel, while acknowledging that the internet can still enrich the religious lives of users.  History  Internet-based Christian communities, better known as online churches or internet churches, began gaining popularity in the early 2000s. Since then, they have prospered dramatically in response to institutional investment, the rise of more sophisticated social media and the emergence of free-access virtual worlds...
Save the Internet is a coalition of individuals, businesses, and non-profit organizations working for the preservation of Net neutrality. The site encourages taking action against discrimination of bandwidth distribution on the Internet.  History  Save the Internet was founded in April 2006 in order to advocate for net neutrality. When Save the Internet formed, it asserted the idea that network neutrality needed to be protected by a First Amendment of the Internet. As the First Amendment to the United States Constitution includes protection of freedoms of speech and of the press, so would a proposed Internet first amendment protect network neutrality, which would allow for equal access to every website. January 14, 2014 - Court overturned the Federal Communications Commission's Net Neutrality due to a lawsuit by Verizon. In September 2018, Article 13 was rejected after being put to a vote. On January 22, 2019, Article 13 is halted and rejected now.  Function  This online activist organization functions mainly as a source for public awareness and as a catalyst promoting civic action, such as petitioning Congress to support net neutrality. The website also runs a blog which...
The Internet in Zimbabwe has seen rapid expansion in recent years. The Internet country code top-level domain is .zw. In 2009, the Mugabe-Tsvangirai Government of National Unity established a Ministry of Information and Communications Technology to focus on ICT growth and development.  History of the Internet in Zimbabwe  Zimbabwe's first internet service provider , Data Control  Systems, was established in 1994. In 1997, the national Posts and Telecommunication Corporation built a national Internet backbone to sell bandwidth to private ISPs. The Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe oversees ISP licensing. As of 2009, licenses cost US2-4 million, depending on the level of service the ISP wished to provide, plus 3.5 percent of the ISP's annual gross income. The most recent membership list on the Zimbabwe Internet Service Providers Association web site, last updated in 2007, comprises 28 ISPs.  Statistics  Approximately 40 percent of Zimbabwe's population were internet users as of January 2014. This contrasts with 15.7 percent in 2011 and 0.4 percent in the year 2000. Most of the users access...
Voice over Internet Protocol , also known as IP telephony, is a set of technologies used primarily for voice communication sessions over Internet Protocol networks, such as the Internet. VoIP enables voice calls to be transmitted as data packets, facilitating various methods of voice communication, including voice and video conferencing applications and appliances and VoIP phones. Regular telephones can also be used for VoIP by connecting them to the Internet via an analog telephone adapter , which converts telephone signals into digital data packets that can be transmitted over IP networks. The broader terms Internet telephony, broadband telephony, and broadband phone service specifically refer to the delivery of voice and other communication services, such as fax, SMS, and voice messaging, over the Internet, in contrast to the traditional public switched telephone network , commonly known as plain old telephone service . VoIP technology has evolved to integrate with mobile telephony, including Voice over LTE and Voice over NR , enabling seamless voice communication over mobile data networks. These advancements have extended VoIP's role beyond...
Karfigula is a village in Burkina Faso's Como Province. It has around 890 inhabitants and is home to the Cascades de Karfigula, a major tourism destination in Burkina Faso. The town is located about 12 km northwest of Banfora, the provincial capital and the farmers who live there mostly harvest sugar cane.  References 
The 2001 CAF Cup was the 10th edition of the CAF Cup, the African continental club competition for runners up of the respective domestic leagues. It was won by Algerian team JS Kabylie who beat toile Sportive du Sahel of Tunisia on the away goals rule in the final, after the two teams finished level on aggregate 2-2. It was the second year in a row that JS Kabylie's won the competition after also winning the 2000 edition.  First round  1 Simba FC withdrew before first leg 2 First leg abandoned with the score 3-0 due to poor visibility. CAF disqualified Mongomo for arriving late and delaying kick-off. Five teams received a bye : JS Kabylie , Goldfields , Africa Sport , Wydad Casablanca , toile du Sahel  Second round  1 Katsina United did not show up for second leg  Quarter-finals   Semi-finals  toile du Sahel won 3-1 on aggregate and advanced to the final. 3-3 on aggregate, JS Kabylie won on away goals rule and advanced to the final.  Finals   First leg   Second leg  2-2 on aggregate, JS Kabylie won on away goals rule  Champions   See also  2001 CAF Champions League CAF Cup  External links... 
Four Embarcadero Center is a class-A office skyscraper in the Financial District of San Francisco, California. The building is part of the Embarcadero Center complex of six interconnected buildings and one off-site extension. The skyscraper, completed in 1982, stands 174 m with 45 stories. Four Embarcadero Center is the tallest building out of the entire complex, standing at slightly taller than One Embarcadero Center, which is the second tallest in the complex without its flagpole.  History  As of 2021, the complex is owned by Boston Properties. In 1998, they purchased the four towers along with 275 Battery Street and the Old Federal Reserve Bank Building from Prudential Insurance Co. and David Rockefeller for US1.22 billion.  See also  List of tallest buildings in San Francisco  References   External links  Embarcadero Center official website
Asano was a village located in Nakatado District, Kagawa Prefecture, Japan, from 1890 to 1901. On 15 February 1890, the villages of sa and Ikano merged to form the village of Asano. Tado District merged with Naka District to become Nakatado District on 1 April 1899. Then on 3 November 1901, Asano merged with Yoshida and Zentsuji villages, becoming Zentsuji-cho town. What was once Asano is now part of Zentsji.
Pilocrocis xanthostictalis is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by George Hampson in 1908. It is found in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Madagascar and Tanzania. The wingspan is about 26 mm. The forewings are red brown with a dark antemedial line, with a yellow band on its inner side from below the costa to the inner margin. There is a black spot in the middle of the cell and discoidal lunule, with a quadrate white patch between them. There is also a dark postmedial line, with a dentate yellow mark on its outer edge below the costa, as well as three minute dentate spots between veins 5 and 2, and a lunule below the angle of the cell. The hindwings are yellow with a dark discoidal bar and some brown suffusion below the end of the cell. The postmedial line is brown and there is a broad brown terminal band.  References 
Diva is the third studio album by Puerto Rican reggaetn recording artist Ivy Queen. It was released on August 23, 2003 and independently distributed by Real Music Group after being dropped from Sony Discos. The recording followed her two previous studio albums which were commercially unsuccessful and a hiatus from her musical career beginning in 1999. It featured collaborations with Latin hip hop artists including Mexicano 777, Bimbo and K-7 while the album's production was handled by a variety of musical producers Luny Tunes, DJ Nelson, Noriega, and Ivn Joy were enlisted, while DJ Adam produced a majority of the tracks. Lyrically, the album explored female empowerment, infidelity, heartbreak and love with a veritable compendium of her artistic passion, femininity, and culture. The musical styles of the recording alternate between reggaetn and hip-hop while Queen experiments with RB, dancehall, and pop balladry. Diva spawned a total of seven singles: Quiero Bailar, Quiero Saber, Papi Te Quiero, Guillaera, Tuya Soy, Tu No Puedes, and Sbelo, which were released over the course of three years. Quiero Bailar became a commercial success and her first big hit in the...
In Tongues We Speak is a split EP album by English grindcore band Napalm Death and American metalcore band Coalesce.  Track listing   Credits  Napalm Death Mark Barney Greenway - vocals Jesse Pintado - guitar Mitch Harris - guitar Shane Embury - bass Danny Herrera - drums Coalesce Sean Ingram - vocals Jes Steineger - guitars Stacy Hilt - bass James Dewees - drums  References 
The Apartment is the eighteenth episode of the first season of the American television police sitcom series Brooklyn Nine-Nine. Written by David Quandt and directed by Tucker Gates, it aired on Fox on February 25, 2014 in the United States. In the episode, Jake is notified that his apartment is going through new rules. He must pay additional money if he wants to keep it. Meanwhile, Holt conducts interrogatories for each detective. The episode was seen by an estimated 2.66 million household viewers and gained a 1.33 ratings share among adults aged 18-49, according to Nielsen Media Research. The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics, who praised Andy Samberg's performance, the cold open, and the writing.  Plot  In the cold open, Jake ends up accidentally calling Holt Dad while interrogating a robbery suspect, leading the rest of the precinct to make fun of him while also getting the suspect to admit his alibi was a lie. Jake Peralta has been living in his deceased grandmother's apartment. He learns that it is going co-op but due to ignoring his mail, only finds out the day of the deadline, and he will have to pay nearly a half million dollars to...
L'Oiseau et l'Enfant French pronunciation:  The Bird and the Child is a song recording by French singer Marie Myriam with music composed by Jean-Paul Cara and French lyrics written by Joe Gracy. It represented France in the Eurovision Song Contest 1977 held in London, resulting in the country's last win to date at the contest.  Background   Conception  L'Oiseau et l'Enfant was composed by Jean-Paul Cara with French lyrics by Joe Gracy and was recorded by Marie Myriam. She recorded the song in five languages French, English -as The Bird and the Child-, German -Der Vogel und das Mdchen with lyrics by Joe Gracy and H. von Schenckendorf-, Spanish -El zagal y el ave azul-, and her mother tongue Portuguese -A ave e a infncia-.  Eurovision  Between 20 February-6 March 1977, L'Oiseau et l'Enfant performed by Marie Myriam competed in the national final that Tlvision Franaise 1 organized to select its song and performer for the 22nd edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. The song won the competition so it became the French entry -and Myriam the performer- for Eurovision. A promo video was released showing Myriam performing the song in...
I Quit is a song by British female pop band Hepburn. The song was written by Phil Thornalley, who produced the track alongside Notodog, and Colin Campsie. Included on Hepburn's debut and only studio album, Hepburn , the song also appeared on the soundtrack to the American supernatural drama television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I Quit was originally offered to Australian singer Natalie Imbruglia, who turned down the track. Hepburn recorded the song instead and released it as their debut single on 17 May 1999 through Columbia Records. Commercially, the song reached number eight on the UK Singles Chart and also charted in France, peaking at number 80. The song was released in the United States in October 1999 but failed to generate success.  Release and reception  Columbia Records released I Quit in the United Kingdom on 17 May 1999. Critically, British trade paper Music Week compared the song's angry chorus to Alanis Morissette's music, noting the song's maturity and calling it instantly catchy and hummable. UK chart columnist James Masterton wrote that the rhyming couplet But you turned into another liar  And you came on like a new Messiah was the coolest...
The Allenton State Wildlife Area is a wildlife area in Wisconsin along the East Branch of the Rock River tributary of the Mississippi River in western Washington County, Wisconsin. The area was once a glacial lake and is now a wooded bottomland. It is popular with birders and is part of the Great Wisconsin Birding and Nature Trail. Theresa Marsh and its state wildlife area is to the park's north. The wildlife area includes habitat used by sandhill crane, marsh wren, swamp sparrow and snow geese. Rare species include the rough-legged hawk, northern harrier, bobolink and American bittern.  See also  Theresa Marsh Wildlife Area  References   External links  U.S. Geological Survey Map at the U.S. Geological Survey Map Website. Retrieved May 2, 2022.
This is a list of seasons completed by the Ole Miss Rebels men's basketball team.  Yearly record  A. Kennedy coached the first 27 games of the season, going 11-16 and 4-10 in conference. Madlock finished the season, going 1-4 and 1-3 in conference B. Davis coached the first 28 games of the season, going 10-18 and 2-13 in conference. Case finished the season, going 2-3 and 1-2 in conference  References  Record Book  . Archived from the original on March 4, 2016. Retrieved June 17, 2013.
Lincoln Place is a neighborhood in the 31st ward of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, located in the southeast corner of the city. It is represented on the Pittsburgh City Council by the representative of District 5, Barb Warwick. The neighborhood is notable for being home to the largest water tower in western Pennsylvania. Additionally, McBride Park features the Pittsburgh Penguins, UPMC, deck hockey rink.  Surrounding communities  Lincoln Place has four borders, including the Pittsburgh neighborhoods of Hays to the northwest and New Homestead to the north, and the boroughs of Munhall to the northeast and West Mifflin to the east, south and west.  See also  List of Pittsburgh neighborhoods  External links  Interactive Pittsburgh neighborhoods map Lincoln Place map
Joan Field was an American violinist.  Biography and career  Joan Field was born in Long Branch, New Jersey. She began violin studies at the age of 5. She was a pupil of Franz Kneisel, Albert Spalding and Michel Piastro in the United States and spent four years in Paris during her teens studying with Jacques Chailley, Jacques Thibaud and George Enescu at the cole Normale de Musique. She made her recital debut in Town Hall in New York City in 1934. About that evening, The New York Times wrote, Miss Field's playing is that of a thoughtful, sensitive and fastidious musician. She made her orchestra debut in November, 1941, playing the Saint-Saens Concerto 3 with Sir John Barbirolli and the New York Philharmonic. She went on to perform with major orchestras in the United States, including the American Symphony Orchestra, the Detroit Symphony, the St. Louis Symphony, the Boston Symphony, the Cincinnati Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Washington Symphony and five solo performances with the New York Philharmonic at Lewisohn Stadium and Carnegie Hall. In 1937 she played in recital for President and Mrs. Franklin...
Little Miss No-Account is a 1918 American silent comedy drama film directed by William P. S. Earle and starring Gladys Leslie, Frank O'Connor, William Calhoun, Eulalie Jensen, and Wes Jenkins. It is based on the story The Reflection of Scarlet by Edward P. Smaney. The film was released by Vitagraph Company of America on April 13, 1918.  Plot   Cast  Gladys Leslie as Patty Baring Frank O'Connor as Edwin Sayer William Calhoun as Josiah Wheeler Eulalie Jensen as Ann Wheeler-Ballinger Wes Jenkins as Stebbins Richard Wangermann as Herman Carlton S. King as Ned Stephen Carr as Bobby  Preservation  With no prints of Little Miss No-Account located in any film archives, it is a lost film.  References   External links  Little Miss No-Account at IMDb
Collge de Maisonneuve French pronunciation:  or Cgep de Maisonneuve is a francophone public pre-university and technical college located in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.  Partnerships  The College is affiliated with the ACCC, and CCAA.  History  In 1967, several institutions were merged and became public ones, when the Quebec system of public colleges was created. Collge de Maisonneuve was named after Paul Chomedey de Maisonneuve. On the 5 of May 1973 the Socit Gnrale des tudiants et tudiantes du Collge de Maisonneuve was created. It is still the association of Maisonneuve students.  Programs  The college offers two types of programs: pre-university and technical. The pre-university programs, which take two years to complete, cover the subject matters which roughly correspond to the additional year of high school given elsewhere in Canada, as well as an introductory specialization that generally happens in freshman year, in preparation for a chosen field in university. The technical programs, which take three years to complete, applies to students who wish to pursue a skilled trade. In addition, continuing education and services to...
Chandra Danette Wilson is an American actress and director best known for her role as Dr. Miranda Bailey in Grey's Anatomy , for which she won a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series and two NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. She also played the character of Bailey on Private Practice and Station 19. She made her New York stage debut in 1991 and began to land guest spots on a variety of prime-time television shows. She made her first film appearance in the 1993 film Philadelphia.  Early life  Wilson was born and raised in Houston, Texas. Her mother, a postal worker, wanted to keep her daughter active, so she enrolled Chandra in numerous after-school activities. Starting at age four, my mom decided that she was not going to have an idle child in the house, Wilson recalls. So I started taking dance lessons on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and then I was in acting classes on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and I was also modeling on Saturdays. And that was my childhood. My first show was The King and I when I was five she said in an interview with Broadway.com...
Eric William Dane n Melvin November 9, 1972 - February 19, 2026 was an American actor. After multiple television roles in the 1990s and 2000s, including his recurring role as Jason Dean on Charmed, he was cast as Dr. Mark Sloan on the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy . He went on to appear in films such as -Men: The Last Stand as Multiple Man, Marley  Me , Valentine's Day , Burlesque , and Bad Boys: Ride or Die . Dane also played Captain Tom Chandler in the TNT series The Last Ship , Cal Jacobs in the HBO drama series Euphoria , and FBI Special Agent Nathan Blythe in the Amazon Prime Video crime series Countdown . In 2025, he announced that he had been diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , which led to his death in 2026 at the age of 53.  Early life  Eric William Melvin was born on November 9, 1972, in San Francisco, California. He had a younger brother. They were raised in their mother's Jewish faith, and Dane had a bar mitzvah ceremony. When he was seven, his father died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Dane was an athlete in high school, playing on the boys' varsity water polo team...
The anatomy of pterosaurs was highly modified from their reptilian ancestors by the adaptation to flight. The bones of pterosaurs were hollow and air-filled, like those of birds. This provided a higher muscle attachment surface for a given skeletal weight. The bone walls were often paper-thin. They had a large and keeled breastbone for flight muscles and an enlarged brain able to coordinate complex flying behaviour. Pterosaur skeletons often show considerable fusion. In the skull, the sutures between elements disappeared. In some later pterosaurs, the backbone over the shoulders fused into a structure known as a notarium, which served to stiffen the torso during flight, and provide a stable support for the shoulder blade. Likewise, the sacral vertebrae could form a single synsacrum while the pelvic bones fused also.  Size  Pterosaurs were highly diverse in size, and some were the largest flying organisms in earth's history. The group is typically considered to obey Cope's rule, with early pterosaurs of the Triassic and Jurassic periods being small animals with wingspans only up to 2 metres , most Cretaceous pterosaurs having wingspans above that threshold, and the largest...
Anatomy of a Marriage: My Days with Franoise is a 1964 French film directed by Andr Cayatte telling the story of a marriage break-up told from the man's point of view. The film is also known as Anatomy of a Marriage: My Nights With Francoise. The film's companion piece Anatomy of a Marriage: My Days with Jean-Marc tells the story from the woman's point of view.  Cast  Marie-Jos Nat as Franoise Dubreuil Jacques Charrier as Jean-Marc Dubreuil Michel Subor as Roger Macha Mril as Nicole Alfred Adam as Fernand Aubry Giani Esposito as Ettore Jacques Monod as Rouquier Yves Vincent as Granjouan Blanchette Brunoy as Suzanne Aubry Jacqueline Porel as Line Jean-Henri Chambois as The President Rosita Fernndez as The Maid Anne Caprile as Mme Monier Yvan Chiffre as Christian Corinne Armand as Christine Albert Dinan Sybil Saulnier as Danile Michle Girardon as Patricia Georges Rivire as Philippe  Soundtrack   Reception  In a joint review of the two films, Bosley Crowther of The New York Times wrote that the two main actors skillfully the characteristics of nobility and selflessness or pettiness and shame but that the two main characters...
The history of anatomy in the 19th century saw anatomists largely finalise and systematise the descriptive human anatomy of the previous century. The discipline also progressed to establish growing sources of knowledge in histology and developmental biology, not only of humans but also of animals.  Anatomical science   Sommerring  Samuel Thomas von Smmerring originally published a clear, accurate and precise system in German , then in Latin . There was a second German edition in 1800-1801 and a further eight-volume edition revised and with additional material by Th.L.W. Bischoff, Friedrich Gustav Jakob Henle, E.H. Huschke, Theile, G.G. Valentin, Vogel, and Rudolph Wagner. The arrangement of the edition is: Vol. 1: Wagner details the life, correspondence and literary writings of Sommerring Vol. 2: Anatomy of the bones and ligaments Vol. 3: Anatomy of the muscles and the vascular system by Theile Vol. 4: microscopic anatomy of the nervous system by Valentin, including the brain, the spinal cord, and the ganglia Vol. 5: Anatomy of the organs by Huschke - this part of the work had been left incomplete by Sommerring but he had left extensive...
A sinus is a sac or cavity in any organ or tissue, or an abnormal cavity or passage. In common usage, sinus usually refers to the paranasal sinuses, which are air cavities in the cranial bones, especially those near the nose and connecting to it. Most individuals have four paired cavities located in the cranial bone or skull.  Etymology  Sinus is Latin for bay, pocket, curve, or bosom. In anatomy, the term is used in various contexts. The word sinusitis is used to indicate that one or more of the membrane linings found in the sinus cavities has become inflamed or infected. It is however distinct from a fistula, which is a tract connecting two epithelial surfaces. If left untreated, infections occurring in the sinus cavities can affect the chest and lungs.  Sinuses in the body  Paranasal sinuses Maxillary Ethmoid Sphenoid Frontal Dural venous sinuses Anterior midline Cavernous Superior petrosal Inferior petrosal Central sulcus Inferior sagittal Superior sagittal Straight Confluence of sinuses Lateral Transverse Sigmoid Inferior Occipital Arterial sinuses Carotid sinus Organ-specific spaces Costodiaphragmatic recess lungdiaphragm sinus, also known as phrenicocostal...
The chair of the Professor of Anatomy at the University of Cambridge was founded by the university in 1707. In 1924, the scope of the professorship was extended from purely human anatomy to cover the anatomy of all vertebrates, as well as embryology.  Professors of Anatomy   References 
A hand is a prehensile, multi-fingered appendage located at the end of the forearm or forelimb of primates such as humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs. A few other vertebrates such as the koala which has two opposable thumbs on each hand and fingerprints extremely similar to human fingerprints are often described as having hands instead of paws on their front limbs. The raccoon is usually described as having hands though opposable thumbs are lacking. The distal portion of the forelimb of an animal has a technical name manus. Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally-for example, in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand. The human hand usually has five digits: four fingers plus one thumb however, these are often referred to collectively as five fingers, whereby the thumb is included as one of the fingers. It has 27 bones, not including the sesamoid bone, the number of which varies among people, 14 of which are the phalanges of the fingers and thumb. The metacarpal bones connect...
Miller's Anatomy of the Dog is a veterinary textbook which was first published in 1964. It deals with the structure, organs and tissues of the dog. The fifth edition was published in 2020. Malcolm E. Miller began work on the first edition of the textbook in 1946, having completed a thesis in 1940 entitled The Dissection and Study of the Trunk of the Dog. Miller based each description and illustration in the book on at least five canine dissections. Miller died in 1960, and the first edition of The Anatomy of the Dog was published posthumously in 1964, with George C. Christensen and Howard E. Evans as co-authors. Evans and Christensen also co-authored the second edition, published in 1979, retitled as Miller's Anatomy of the Dog. This edition was translated into Japanese, and was described by the Canadian Veterinary Journal as being ... more than a manual. It will probably be regarded as a kind of Bible in its own field... Evans was the sole author of the third edition, which was published in 1993. The third edition was reviewed in the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, and the Journal of Small Animal Practice. The fourth edition, published in 2012, was the first...
In anatomy, a medullary ray is the middle part of a renal lobule. Each consists of a group of nephrons in the renal cortex. Their name is potentially misleading, as medullary refers to their destination, not their location. They travel perpendicular to the capsule, and extend from the cortex to the medulla. They may be visualised during urography.  Additional images   References  This article incorporates text in the public domain from the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy  External links  Histology image: 16003loa - Histology Learning System at Boston University - Urinary System: kidney, HE, cortex and medullary ray Histology image: 15901loa - Histology Learning System at Boston University - Urinary System: neonatal kidney UIUC Histology Subject 1008
Kathleen Erin Walsh is an American actress and businesswoman. She is best known for her role as Dr. Addison Montgomery in the ABC medical drama series Grey's Anatomy and Private Practice . Walsh is also known for her roles as Nicki Fifer in the ABC sitcom The Drew Carey Show , Rebecca Wright in the NBC legal sitcom Bad Judge , Olivia Baker in the Netflix teen drama series 13 Reasons Why , The Handler in the Netflix superhero drama series The Umbrella Academy , and Madeline Wheeler in the Netflix comedy-drama series Emily in Paris .  Early life  Walsh was born and raised in San Jose, California, the daughter of Angela and Joseph Patrick Walsh Sr. She grew up in a Catholic household in Tucson, Arizona. Her mother is of Italian descent, and her father was Irish, from Navan in County Meath. Walsh graduated from Catalina Magnet High School and studied acting at the University of Arizona before dropping out. Walsh moved to New York City and joined a comedy troupe, Burn Manhattan, supporting herself by waitressing.  Career  Walsh worked at fast-food outlets before...
CAT is a free and open source software package used for the analysis of structural brain imaging data, in particular magnetic resonance imaging . Developed by Christian Gaser and Robert Dahnke of the Structural Brain Mapping Group at the University of Jena, CAT is an extension of the SPM software.  Functionality  CAT provides tools for voxel-based morphometry , cortical thickness, folding, and gyrification analysis, as well as volume or surface estimates within predefined brain regions of interest.  Related software  SPM FSL AFNI Freesurfer Caret  References 
Aelius Galenus or Claudius Galenus Greek:   September 129 - c. 216 CE, often anglicized as Galen or Galen of Pergamon, was a Roman and Greek physician, surgeon, and philosopher. Considered to be one of the most accomplished of all medical researchers of antiquity, Galen influenced the development of various scientific disciplines, including anatomy, physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and neurology, as well as philosophy and logic. The son of Aelius Nicon, a wealthy Greek architect with scholarly interests, Galen received a comprehensive education that prepared him for a successful career as a physician and philosopher. Born in the ancient city of Pergamon , Galen traveled extensively, exposing himself to a wide variety of medical theories and discoveries before settling in Rome, where he served prominent members of Roman society and eventually was given the position of personal physician to several emperors. Galen's understanding of anatomy and medicine was principally influenced by the contemporary theory of the four humors: black bile, yellow bile, blood, and phlegm, as first advanced by the author of On the Nature of Man in the...
Transcendental anatomy, also known as philosophical anatomy, was a form of comparative anatomy that sought to find ideal patterns and structures common to all organisms in nature. The term originated from naturalist philosophy in the German provinces, and culminated in Britain especially by scholars Robert Knox and Richard Owen, who drew from Goethe and Lorenz Oken. From the 1820s to 1859, it persisted as the medical expression of natural philosophy before the Darwinian revolution. Amongst its various definitions, transcendental anatomy has four main tenets: the presupposition of an Ideal Plan among the multiplicity of visible structures in the animal and plant kingdom, and that the Plan determines function the Ideal Plan acted as a force for the maintenance of anatomical uniformity as opposed to diversity-inducing forces of Nature the belief that this a priori Plan was discoverable the desire to discover universal Laws underlying anatomical differences.  History  Johann Wolfgang Goethe was one of many naturalists and anatomists in the nineteenth century who was in search of an Ideal Plan in nature. In Germany, this was known as Urpflanze for the plant kingdom and Urtier for...
Primates is an order of mammals, which is further divided into the strepsirrhines, which include lemurs, galagos, and lorisids and the haplorhines, which include tarsiers and simians . Primates arose 74-63 million years ago first from small terrestrial mammals, which adapted for life in tropical forests: many primate characteristics represent adaptations to the challenging environment among tree tops, including large brain sizes, binocular vision, color vision, vocalizations, shoulder girdles allowing a large degree of movement in the upper limbs, and opposable thumbs that enable better grasping and dexterity. Primates range in size from Madame Berthe's mouse lemur, which weighs 30 g , to the eastern gorilla, weighing over 200 kg . There are 376-524 species of living primates, depending on which classification is used. New primate species continue to be discovered: over 25 species were described in the 2000s, 36 in the 2010s, and six in the 2020s. Primates have large brains compared to other mammals, as well as an increased reliance on visual acuity at the expense of the sense of smell, which is the dominant...
The Anatomy of Addiction is the second and final studio album by the experimental rock band God, released on 5 May 1994 by Big Cat Records.  Reception  Allmusic staff writer Ned Raggett gave the record three stars, calling it a fantastic listen and a good way for the band to go.  Accolades   Track listing   Personnel  Adapted from The Anatomy of Addiction liner notes.  Release history   References   External links  The Anatomy Of Addiction at Discogs
Flowering plants are plants that bear flowers and fruits, and form the clade Angiospermae . The term angiosperm is derived from the Greek words  and  , meaning that the seeds are enclosed within a fruit. The group was formerly called Magnoliophyta. Angiosperms are by far the most diverse group of land plants with 64 orders, 416 families, approximately 13,000 known genera and 300,000 known species. They include all forbs , grasses and grass-like plants, a vast majority of broad-leaved trees, shrubs and vines, and most aquatic plants. Angiosperms are distinguished from the other major seed plant clade, the gymnosperms, by having flowers, xylem consisting of vessel elements instead of tracheids, endosperm within their seeds, and fruits that completely envelop the seeds. The ancestors of flowering plants diverged from the common ancestor of all living gymnosperms before the end of the Carboniferous, over 300 million years ago. In the Cretaceous, angiosperms diversified explosively, becoming the dominant group of plants across the planet. Agriculture is almost entirely dependent on angiosperms...
Anatomy of Distort is an album by Hwyl Nofio.  Track listing  The Life and Death of Joseph Merrick Red Herald I Love You But I Don't Like You The Wern  The Face of a Social Butterfly Murder in the Cathedral The End  Personnel  Steve Parry: guitar, prepared piano, tapes, keyboards, percussion, ebow, church organ, effects, Harmonium, Cello Mark Powell: Saxophone The Oedipus Ensemble  References   External links  Anatomy-Of-Distort at Discogs. Musique Machine Interview
Major Owen Hunt, M.D., F.A.C.S., is a fictional character from the medical drama television series Grey's Anatomy, which airs on the American Broadcasting Company in the United States. The character was created by series' producer Shonda Rhimes, and is portrayed by Scottish actor Kevin McKidd. He was introduced in Season 5 as a U.S. Army trauma surgeon who served in war-torn Iraq, and subsequently joins the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital to teach medicine as a surgical attending, head of trauma surgery, and eventual chief of surgery, sometimes utilizing unconventional methods. Originally contracted to appear for a multi-episode story arc, he was upgraded to a series regular at the conclusion of his first appearance. Hunt served as a love interest for surgical fellow Cristina Yang and had an unstable personality when first introduced, suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder . McKidd's on-screen chemistry with Oh received critical acclaim, with Matt Roush of TV Guide calling the instant sparks between McKidd and Oh electrifying. Chris Monfette of IGN praised the addition of fresh, new characters like Owen Hunt.  Storylines  Before his regular...
The Anatomy of Peace is a book by Emery Reves, first published in 1945. It expressed the world federalist sentiments shared by Albert Einstein and many others in the late 1940s, in the period immediately following World War II.  The book's appeal to Americans  In an appeal to Americans and the world, the front flap of the book's first edition in 1945 had an Open Letter to the American People, signed by Owen J. Roberts, J.W. Fulbright, Claude Pepper, Elbert D. Thomas, and other dignitaries, which began: The first atomic bomb destroyed more than the city of Hiroshima. It also exploded our inherited, outdated political ideas. A few days before the force of Nature was tried out for the first time in history, the San Francisco Charter was ratified in Washington. The dream of a League of Nations, after 26 years, was accepted by the Senate. How long will the United Nations Charter endure? With luck, a generation? A century? There is no one who does not hope for at least that much luck- for the Charter, for himself, for his work, and for his children's children. But is it enough to have Peace by Luck? Peace by Law is what the peoples of the world, beginning with our selves, can have...
Anatomy of a Love Seen is a 2014 American erotic romantic drama film written and directed by Marina Rice Bader. The film stars Sharon Hinnendael and Jill Evyn.  Plot  Zoe and Mal are two actresses who meet while filming a movie where they're cast as lovers. They end up falling in love in the process and all seems to go well until months later when Mal abandons her lover just when Zoe's career starts to really take off. While it appears that Mal had little reason to leave her lover, the truth is that Mal was formerly a drug addict and was afraid that Zoe would leave her, so she left Zoe before this could happen. The two end up being drawn back together when they're called back by Kara , the film director, to re-shoot their sex scene for TV network distribution. Zoe and Mal initially have a problem acting as both have pent-up feelings for each other, but Anne Pasternak , the film's producer, helps them to work professionally. Anne also comforts both Zoe and Mal individually and keeps their confidence afloat. Zoe gets a call from her agent, who tells her that she should not have any shooting today. Zoe is then...
Anatomy of a Psycho is a 1961 American crime thriller film directed by Boris Petroff . Ed Wood reportedly contributed to Jane Mann's screenplay as Larry Lee. Ronnie Burns, adopted son of George Burns and Gracie Allen, plays the romantic lead. The film was shot at the Alexander Film Company studios in Colorado Springs in 1959. It was the only feature film produced by the company. The film had the working title of Young Scarface by the time film the film received a distributor it was retitled to exploit Anatomy of a Murder and Psycho . Co-screenwriter Don Devlin who played Moe was the father of producer Dean Devlin, Jane Mann was the wife of Boris Petroff.  Premise  Duke Marco has raised his kid brother Chet and his sister like a father. When Duke is sentenced to death after a trial for murder, Chet increasingly experiences paranoia and psychosis, which not even his sister, best friend or girlfriend can relieve. Ultimately losing touch with surrounding reality, he assaults the son of the prosecuting attorney, beats up the judge's son and sets his house on fire then attempts to get the son of the judge on a murder charge. However, Lieutenant Mac,...
The Australian Institute of Anatomy was a natural history museum and medical research institute that was founded in 1931 and disbanded in 1985. The institute's heritage-listed building, located in Acton, Canberra, in the Australian Capital Territory, Australia, has been occupied by the National Film and Sound Archive since October 1984. The building was added to the Commonwealth Heritage List on 22 June 2004. The Australian Institute of Anatomy was established in October 1931 following the relocation of the National Museum of Australian Zoology from Melbourne to Canberra. The latter museum was a continuation of the Australian Institute of Anatomical Research, founded in 1919. This organisation was established by Colin Mackenzie to record Australia's native animals, which he feared were to soon become extinct. To further this aim, Mackenzie also established what is now known as Healesville Sanctuary. The AIA served as a natural history museum and conducted human nutrition research. It also cared for material belonging to the Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies. In 1980 the National Museum of Australia was established, with one of its aims...
Jerrika Hinton is an American actress, best known for her role as Dr. Stephanie Edwards in the ABC medical drama series Grey's Anatomy.  Early life and education  Hinton was born and raised in Oak Cliff, Dallas, Texas, the daughter of Cynthia, a retired government worker, and Avaleon Hinton. She graduated in 2002 with honors from Southern Methodist University's Meadows School of the Arts with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in theatre, studying directing and playwriting.  Career  Hinton began her career appearing in stage productions. She has made her film debut in the 2006 independent drama Rain. The following years, Hinton guest-starred in several television series such as Gilmore Girls, Everybody Hates Chris, Zoey 101, Ghost Whisperer, Gossip Girl, Lie to Me, Bones, and Scandal. In 2008 she did a Hanes commercial with Sarah Chalke. Other film credits include Broken Angel and The Roommate , and well as Ion Television movie A Christmas Kiss . In September 2012, it was announced that Hinton had been cast as new intern Stephanie Edwards for ninth season of Shonda Rhimes medical drama series Grey's Anatomy. In January 2013, it was announced that Hinton along...
The perineum in placental mammals is the space between the anus and the genitals. The human perineum is between the anus and scrotum in the male or between the anus and vulva in the female. The perineum is the region of the body between the pubic symphysis and the coccyx , including the perineal body and surrounding structures. The perineal raphe is visible and pronounced to varying degrees. The perineum is frequently perceived as an erogenous zone, with touch in that area being perceived as both erogenous and aversive by different individuals.  Etymology  The word entered English from late Latin via Greek    perinaios, perineos, itself from ,  'male genitals' and earlier  pers 'penis' through influence from  prs 'scrotum'. The term was originally understood as a purely male body-part with the perineal raphe seen as a continuation of the scrotal septum since masculinization causes the development of a large anogenital distance in men, in comparison to the corresponding lack of distance in women. As a result of folk etymologies such as  in, to carry off by evacuations, it...
Anatomy of Time is a 2021 drama film written and directed by Jakrawal Nilthamrong. A co-production between Thailand, France, Netherlands and Singapore, the film premiered at the 78th edition of the Venice Film Festival, in the Horizons competition. It was awarded the Grand Prize at 2021 Tokyo Filmex.  Plot   Cast  Thaveeratana Leelanuja as Old Meam Prapamonton Eiamchan as Young Meam Sorabodee Changsiri as Old Officer Wanlop Rungkumjad as Young Officer  Production  Producer Mai Meksawan was awarded the inaugural Southeast Asia Co-Production Grant, given by the Singapore Film Commission, which is up to S250,000 to produce the film.  References   External links  Anatomy of Time at IMDb
This article describes the anatomy of the head and neck of the human body, including the brain, bones, muscles, blood vessels, nerves, glands, nose, mouth, teeth, tongue, and throat.  Structure   Bones  The head rests on the top part of the vertebral column, with the skull joining at C1 the first cervical vertebra known as the atlas. The skeletal section of the head and neck forms the top part of the axial skeleton and is made up of the skull, hyoid bone, auditory ossicles, and cervical spine. The skull can be further subdivided into: the cranium 8 bones: frontal, 2-parietal, occipital, 2-temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, and the facial bones 14 bones: 2-zygomatic, 2-maxillary, 2-palatine, 2-nasal, 2-lacrimal, vomer, 2-inferior conchae, mandible. The occipital bone joins with the atlas near the foramen magnum, a large hole at the base of the skull. The atlas joins with the occipital condyle above and the axis below. The spinal cord passes through the foramen magnum.  Muscles   Skin  The head and neck is covered in skin and its appendages, termed the integumentary system. These include hair, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, and sensory nerves. The skin is...
Arthur Harari is a French film director, screenwriter and actor. He is most known for co-writing Anatomy of a Fall with Justine Triet, for which he won the Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay, BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay, Csar Award for Best Original Screenplay and Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. He made his directorial debut in 2016 with the crime drama Dark Inclusion. In 2021 he co-wrote and directed the war drama Onoda: 10,000 Nights in the Jungle, for which he won the Csar Award for Best Original Screenplay.  Career  After three shorts and a medium-length film, Harari directed his debut feature Dark Inclusion , a heist film and family revenge drama about diamond dealers in Antwerp. His second feature film, Onoda: 10,000 Nights in the Jungle, was selected to be screened as the opening film in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2021 Cannes Film Festival. With his co-writer Vincent Poymiro, Harari won Best Original Screenplay at the 47th Csar Awards. He was a co-writer of the film Anatomy of a Fall , which won numerous awards for Best Original Screenplay, including the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay...
Sledgehammer is the first episode and the season premiere of the twelfth season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy, and the 246th episode overall. Written by Stacy McKee and directed by Kevin McKidd, the episode aired on the American Broadcasting Company in the United States on September 24, 2015. The episode focuses on Meredith Grey adjusting to her new life after the death of her husband Derek Shepherd , now living with her half-sister, Maggie Pierce , and sister-in-law, Amelia Shepherd . Other storylines include Miranda Bailey vying for the position of Chief of Surgery with the support of Richard Webber , and Arizona Robbins searching for a new roommate after her split from Callie Torres . Additionally, relationship tensions rise for couples Alex Karev and Jo Wilson , as well as Jackson Avery and April Kepner . Upon its initial broadcast, Sledgehammer was watched by 9.55 million viewers in the United States, receiving a 2.810 Nielsen rating in the 18...
The sixteenth season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy was ordered on May 10, 2019, by American Broadcasting Company . The season premiered on September 26, 2019. The season is produced by ABC Studios, in association with Shondaland Production Company and Entertainment One Television the showrunner being Krista Vernoff. The season's main storylines include the recently fired Dr. Meredith Grey 's impending trial to fight for her medical license and her on-off again love-life with surgical resident, Andrew DeLuca , who begins to spiral into bipolar mania. Alex Karev and Richard Webber also begin working at Pac-North after being fired by Chief Miranda Bailey . Other storylines include Teddy Altman 's affair with Tom Koracick in the wake of her engagement to Owen Hunt  Amelia Shepherd 's surprise pregnancy, with the baby's paternity brought into question Jackson Avery and Maggie Pierce 's break up Miranda Bailey's miscarriage and Jo Karev 's emergence from the...
Jessica Brooke Capshaw is an American actress known for her roles as Jamie Stringer on the ABC legal drama series The Practice, pediatric surgeon Dr. Arizona Robbins on the ABC medical drama Grey's Anatomy and Blythe Hart on the ABC procedural drama 9-1-1: Nashville.  Early life  Capshaw was born Jessica Brooke Capshaw on August 9, 1976, in Columbia, Missouri to Robert Capshaw and actress Kate Capshaw. She is the stepdaughter of director Steven Spielberg, whom her mother married when Jessica was 15. Capshaw graduated from Harvard-Westlake School in Los Angeles in 1994, then attended Brown University, where she was in productions of Arcadia and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. She graduated in 1998 with a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature. During summers, she attended classes at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, where she appeared as Puck in a production of A Midsummer Night's Dream.  Career  Capshaw had a minor role as Jeremy Davies' potential love interest in The Locusts , which starred her mother, then appeared in Adam Rifkin's independent film Denial . She played Dorothy Wheeler in the slasher film Valentine , had a minor...
A peduncle is an elongated stalk of tissue. Sessility is the state of not having a peduncle a sessile mass or structure lacks a stalk. In medicine, a mass such as a cyst or polyp is said to be pedunculated if it is supported by a peduncle. There are in total three types of peduncles in the cerebellum of the human brain, known as superior cerebellar peduncle, middle cerebellar peduncle, and inferior cerebellar peduncle. Pedunculated eyes are also the defining attribute of the stylophthalmine trait found in certain fish larvae. The caudal peduncle is a slightly narrowed part of a fish where the caudal fin meets the spine.  See also  Peduncle  References 
The International Federation of Associations of Anatomists is an umbrella scientific organization of national and multinational Anatomy Associations, dedicated to anatomy and biomorphological sciences.  Origins and objectives  In 1903, Prof. Nicolas, from Nancy, France, was successful in founding the International Federation of Associations of Anatomists. The first International Congress of Anatomy was held in Geneva in 1905 and started as a committee to organize five yearly conferences. There are 56 member associations of the International Federation of Associations of Anatomists e.g., the American Association for Anatomy. The IFAA is the only international body representing all aspects of anatomy and anatomical associations. Since 1989 the Federative International Committee on Anatomical Terminology under IFAA auspices, has met to analyze and study the international morphological terminology , releasing updated Terminologia Anatomica in 1998 and Terminologia Histologica in 2008.  Years, cities and presidencies   See also  Nomina Anatomica Pan American Association of Anatomy Terminologia Anatomica  References  DiDio...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 932 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The Munich Center for Machine Learning is a joint research institution of LMU Munich and the Technical University of Munich in the field of machine learning and artificial intelligence , based in Munich. Founded in 2018, the MCML is one of six German AI competence centers. It is funded by the Federal Ministry of Research, Technology and Space and the State of Bavaria.  Research  Over 600 scientists work at the MCML in three research areas: Foundations of ML Perception, Vision, and Natural Language Processing Domain-specific ML.  Leadership  The MCML is headed by the four directors Bernd Bischl, Daniel Cremers, Daniel Rckert and Thomas Seidl, as well as the managing directors Elke Achtert and Alexandra Stang .  See also  Comparison of machine learning software Comparison of deep learning software List of machine learning algorithms  External links  Official website  References 
In machine learning, Platt scaling or Platt calibration is a way of transforming the outputs of a classification model into a probability distribution over classes. The method was invented by John Platt in the context of support vector machines, replacing an earlier method by Vapnik, but can be applied to other classification models. Platt scaling works by fitting a logistic regression model to a classifier's scores.  Problem formalization  Consider the problem of binary classification: for inputs x, we want to determine whether they belong to one of two classes, arbitrarily labeled 1 and 1. We assume that the classification problem will be solved by a real-valued function f, by predicting a class label y  sign. For many problems, it is convenient to get a probability P  y  1  x  displaystyle P , i.e. a classification that not only gives an answer, but also a degree of certainty about the answer. Some classification models do not provide such a probability, or give poor probability estimates.  Algorithm  Platt scaling is an algorithm to...
Transfer learning is a technique in machine learning in which knowledge learned from a task is re-used in order to boost performance on a related task. For example, for image classification, knowledge gained while learning to recognize cars could be applied when trying to recognize trucks. This topic is related to the psychological literature on transfer of learning, although practical ties between the two fields are limited. Reusing or transferring information from previously learned tasks to new tasks has the potential to significantly improve learning efficiency. Since transfer learning makes use of training with multiple objective functions it is related to cost-sensitive machine learning and multi-objective optimization.  History  In 1976, Bozinovski and Fulgosi published a paper addressing transfer learning in neural network training. The paper gives a mathematical and geometrical model of the topic. In 1981, a report considered the application of transfer learning to a dataset of images representing letters of computer terminals, experimentally demonstrating positive and negative transfer learning. In 1992, Lorien Pratt formulated the discriminability-based transfer...
Artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques are used in video games for a wide variety of applications such as non-player character control, procedural content generation and deep learning-based content generation. Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence that uses historical data to build predictive and analytical models. This is in sharp contrast to traditional methods of artificial intelligence such as search trees and expert systems. Information on machine learning techniques in the field of games is mostly known to public through research projects as most gaming companies choose not to publish specific information about their intellectual property. The most publicly known application of machine learning in games is likely the use of deep learning agents that compete with professional human players in complex strategy games. There has been a significant application of machine learning on games such as AtariALE, Doom, Minecraft, StarCraft, and car racing. Other games that did not originally exists as video games, such as chess and Go have also been affected by the machine learning.  Overview of relevant machine learning techniques  3...
ML is an open-source machine learning framework developed by Apple and designed primarily for Apple silicon. It is used for training and running machine learning models and is optimized for Apple silicon's unified memory architecture, allowing the CPU and GPU to work with the same data without copying it between separate memory pools. ML can be used for applications including large language model training and inference, image generation, and speech recognition.  History  Apple's machine learning research team released ML in December 2023. It was initially developed by Awni Hannun, Jagrit Digani, Angelos Katharopoulos, and Ronan Collobert and released under the MIT License. Its design was influenced by numerical and machine learning frameworks including NumPy, PyTorch, and JA. A Swift interface for ML was released in February 2024, allowing machine learning research using Swift on Apple silicon. In March 2026, Ollama introduced support for ML for running local language models on Apple silicon Macs.  Features  ML can be used to run and train artificial intelligence models, including large language models, locally on Apple silicon Macs. It provides higher-level neural network...
Applying machine learning methods to the study of quantum systems is an emergent area of physics research. A basic example of this is quantum state tomography, where a quantum state is learned from measurement. Other examples include learning Hamiltonians,, detecting phase transition in spin-systems even when not trained on physical configurations near criticality, learning quantum phase transitions, and automatically generating new quantum experiments. ML is effective at processing large amounts of experimental or calculated data in order to characterize an unknown quantum system, making its application useful in contexts including quantum information theory, quantum technology development, and computational materials design. In this context, for example, it can be used as a tool to interpolate pre-calculated interatomic potentials, or directly solving the Schrdinger equation with a variational method.  Applications   Noisy data  The ability to experimentally control and prepare increasingly complex quantum systems brings with it a growing need to turn large and noisy data sets into meaningful information. This is a problem that has already...
Captain Scarlet or Captain Scarlett may refer to: Captain Scarlett, a 1953 film starring Richard Greene Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons, a 1967-68 science-fiction TV series Captain Scarlet vs. the Mysterons, a 1980 television film based on the 1960s series New Captain Scarlet, a 2005 remake of the 1960s series Captain Scarlet , the lead character of both the original series and the CGI remake Captain Scarlett, a character in Borderlands 2 DLC Captain Scarlett and Her Pirate's Booty  See also  Revenge of the Mysterons from Mars, a 1981 television film based on the 1960s series All pages with titles beginning with Captain Scarlet All pages with titles containing Captain Scarlet All pages with titles containing Captain Scarlett
Inanda gaerdesi is a species of beetle of the family Scarabaeidae. It is found in Namibia.  Description  Adults reach a length of about 6 mm . They have a black ground colour, although it is reddish-brown on the disc of the elytra. Three longitudinal bands on the pronotum and the suture and marginal bands on the elytra consist of yellow and whitish scales. The pygidial area and margin of the underside have similar scales.  References 
Theatre Square is a plaza situated in the heart of the city of Rotterdam, and is flanked by the municipal theatre, concert hall, restaurants, and cafes. An urban stage and an interactive open space, the 12.250 square meter square is designed by West 8, the landscape architecture firm founded by Adriaan Geuze. The design emphasizes the importance of a void, which opens a panorama towards the city skyline. It opened to the public in 1996.  History  Before World War II the area was a densely populated neighbourhood. In the 1960s the square was constructed including underground parking and the De Doelen concert hall. The square was redesigned in 1996 by Adriaan Geuze and his firm West 8. A model of the design is in the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The Project for Public Spaces included the redesigned square in its Hall of Shame, calling it a perfect example of how a design statement cannot be a great square  References   External links and references  Square dance - Schouwburgplein, Rotterdam, the Netherlands, by Connie Van Cleef, Jan. 1998.
Aphera lindae is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Cancellariidae, the nutmeg snails.  Description  Original description: Shell solid, thickened, oval-elliptical in shape, shiny entire shell surface covered with numerous fine axial ribs and numerous fine spiral cords axial ribs and spiral cords of equal size, intersecting to produce finely cancellate sculpture columella wide, reflected onto body whorl as polished enameled area columella with 2 large, equal-sized plications edge of lip crenulated interior of aperture with 15 lirae which disappear farther inside color pure white with single large pale tan patch on dorsum interior of aperture and columella white.  Distribution  Locus typicus: Golfo de Triste, off Puerto Cabello, Venezuela.  References 
Events from the year 1798 in the United States.  Incumbents   Federal government  President: John Adams Vice President: Thomas Jefferson Chief Justice: Oliver Ellsworth Speaker of the House of Representatives: Jonathan Dayton Congress: 5th  State governments   Events  January - Eli Whitney contracts with the U.S. federal government for 10,000 rifles, which he will produce with interchangeable parts. January 8 - 11th Amendment ratified after two states are ratified. February 17 - Federalist Congressman Roger Griswold of Connecticut attacks Vermont Representative Matthew Lyon with a walking stick in the chambers of the United States House of Representatives. March - The YZ Affair begins, souring relations between the United States and France. April - U.S. House of Representatives elections begin in New York and continue into 1799. April 7 - The Mississippi Territory is organized from territory ceded by Georgia and South Carolina and is later twice expanded to include disputed territory claimed by both the U.S. and Spain. July 7 Quasi-War: The United States Congress rescinds treaties with France, sparking the...
Guido Mannari was an Italian actor of film and television.  Life and career  Guido was born in Castiglioncello, Province of Livorno into a large family. He had three half-brothers. His father, Giulio Mannari, was a farmer, who worked on a local farm. His mother Lina was one of the most beautiful women in the town. Before starting his acting career, Mannari was a semi-professional soccer player and played for his local team. He was a fullback at Unione Sportiva Citt di Pontedera. Guido Mannari moved to Rome at a young age and decided to pursue a career as an actor, inspired by the movie Il sorpasso, which was filmed in Castiglioncello, his native town. After playing in the avant-garde theatre for a short time in the capital, he decided to go to the United States for a year in order to master his future profession. Spending a year in America, he returned to Italy and made his first debut in Arabella directed by Mauro Bolognini. Then he was chosen by Bolognini to play a scene of rape in the Italian drama film L'assoluto naturale internationally released as He and She and She and He, a scene that at the time raised a slight of controversities...
The Wheelchair State Challenge is an annual wheelchair rugby league fixture between the Australian state representative sides of New South Wales and Queensland. First played in 2015 as the Wheelchair Interstate Challenge, the competition was rebranded as the Wheelchair State of Origin in 2019, and as the Wheelchair State Challenge in 2023.  History   Establishment of wheelchair rugby league  Wheelchair rugby league was developed in France in 2000 and introduced to Australia by a touring French team in 2004. Interest in the sport increased when the first World Cup was held in Sydney in November 2008 and in December 2009 it was announced that a wheelchair rugby league competition would be launched in New South Wales. The sport continued to develop in the Sydney area and the Australian Wheelchair Rugby League had grown to eight teams by 2014 when exhibition matches and events were first held in Queensland as part of an effort to expand the game within Australia.  Wheelchair Interstate Challenge  The inaugural interstate competition took place at the Eagles Sports Complex, Mansfield, on 2 July 2015 with New South Wales winning 49-4 in a one-off match. It was proposed...
renal is a village in the Sason District, Batman Province, Turkey. The village is populated by Arabs and had a population of 440 in 2021. The hamlets of ukurca, Kayadibi, Keiler and Yedigz are attached to the village. Yedigz is populated by Kurds, while the other hamlets are populated by Arabs.  References 
Jodok Mrlin, also known in Latin as Jodocus Morlinus or Maurus  ca 1490, Feldkirch, Archduchy of Austria, Holy Roman Empire - 15 September 1550, Westhausen bei Hildburghausen, Electorate of Saxony , was a Professor of Philosophy at the University of Wittenberg, the Lutheran pastor of Westhausen bei Hildburghausen, and a Reformer. He is famed as one of the first witnesses, allies and participants of the Reformation and as the father of two Lutheran theologians, Joachim Mrlin and Maximilian Mrlin.  Life   Before the Reformation  Jodok Mrlin was born in or around 1490 in Feldkirch in the Vorarlberg, the westernmost part of the Archduchy of Austria. He was the son of Hugo Mrlin and his wife, Lucia Ebenko , the grandson of Johann Mrlin, and the great-grandson of another Hugo Mrlin. The name, Jodok, was not Germanic it was Breton. Jodok might have gotten his rare name if he was baptized on 13 December, the feast day of St. Judoc, a 7th Century noble from Brittany. Nothing is known about his early years. But in 1508 he was studying at the University of Freiburg im Breisgau, with Johann Eck as one of his teachers, and then, on a scholarship...
Amy Connell is a Scottish karateka. She is a two-time bronze medalist at the European Karate Championships. Connell competed in the women's 55 kg event at the 2019 European Games held in Minsk, Belarus. In 2021, she competed in the women's 55 kg event at the World Karate Championships held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates where she was eliminated in her first match. Connell won one of the bronze medals in the women's 55 kg event at the 2022 European Karate Championships held in Gaziantep, Turkey. In 2023, she competed in the women's 55 kg event at the European Karate Championships held in Guadalajara, Spain and in the women's 55 kg event at the World Karate Championships held in Budapest, Hungary.  Achievements   References 
Quantum Mistake, originally titled Change Guy after its Korean-language title, is a manhwa originally published in 31 volumes between 1998 and 2006. It was authored by Son Eun-ho and illustrated by Choi Myung-su. It tells the tale of two boys, Woo-Soo Choi and Kang-Too Jee, after their souls are accidentally switched into one another's bodies.  Plot  On the same day as a scientist is performing body teleportation experiments, Woo-Soo Choi and Kang Too-Jee end up in a fight after Woo-Soo Choi pulls down Kang-Too Jee's trousers accidentally. As they are fighting, the mad scientist - currently chasing a homeless person she was trying to bribe who stole the money - runs them over. She then uses them to test her new teleportation device. The transportation is successful and she then unceremoniously dumps their bodies and drives off only to find something was wrong with the device. She had just teleported their bodies, not their minds to go with them. When he wakes up, Woo-Soo Choi sees himself lying on the ground. He realizes that his body has somehow been switched and runs his unconscious body to the hospital. When Kang Too-Jee - now in Woo-Soo Choi's body - wakes up...
 Events  Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor, commissions a Landbuch, a survey of his possessions.  New books  John Barbour - The Brus Catalan Atlas, attributed to Cresques Abraham  Births  probable - Juan Alfonso de Baena, troubadour  Deaths  February 9 - Chgan Engetsu, Japanese poet December 21 - Giovanni Boccaccio, Italian writer  References 
Cleveland Joseph Pancake Thomas Jr. is an American professional basketball player for the REG of the Rwanda Basketball League.  High school career  Thomas attended Scotlandville Magnet High School. As a senior, he averaged 18 points, eight rebounds, three steals and two assists per game, earning Class 5A All-State honors. Thomas posted 21 points and 11 rebounds in an 82-48 victory over McKinley High School in the state title game.  College career  Thomas began his college basketball career with New Mexico, helping the Lobos reach the NCAA Tournament as a freshman. He averaged 3.9 points per game as a sophomore and saw his minutes dwindle as the season progressed. Thomas opted to transfer following the season, but tore his ACL three days later. He opted to come to Hartford, one of the few schools to show interest despite the injury. As a junior, he averaged 19 points and 6.4 rebounds per game and had four 30-point performances. Thomas transferred to Western Kentucky for his redshirt senior season.  Professional career  Thomas played for KTE-Duna Aszfalt during the 2020-21 season and averaged 14.8 points, 5.8 rebounds, 3.1 assists, and 1.3 steals...
The following is a list of events affecting radio broadcasting in 2018. Events listed include radio program debuts, finales, cancellations, and station launches, closures and format changes, as well as information about controversies.  Notable events   January   February   March   April   May   June   July   August   September   October   November   December   Debuts   Closings   Deaths   References 
Castlekeeran is a former monastery and a National Monument in County Meath, Ireland.  Location  Castlekeeran survives as a walled graveyard, 1.1 km south of Carnaross and on the south bank of the Leinster Blackwater.  History  Castlekeeran was founded by Ciarn the Pious of Bealach-duin . The monastery was raided by Vikings in 949 and by Diarmait Mac Murchada in 1170, before passing through the hands of the Knights Hospitaller and in after the Dissolution of the Monasteries to the Plunket family.  Description   High crosses  Three sandstone high crosses are on the site. A fourth cross is in the river. According to legend, Columba was stealing the cross, was caught by Ciarn and quickly dumped the cross in the river. They are called termon crosses which marked the snctissimus, the holiest part of the monastery around the church.  Ogham stone  An Ogham stone present reads COVAGNI MAQI MUCOLI LUGINI, meaning Cuana son of the people of Luigni. The Luigni were noted in Meath from the 8th century onward, and give their name to the barony of Lune.  References 
Duniya is a 1968 Indian Hindi-language romantic thriller film written by K. A. Narayan and directed by T. Prakash Rao. The film starred Dev Anand, Vyjayanthimala in the lead with Balraj Sahni, Johnny Walker, Lalita Pawar, Prem Chopra, Sulochana Latkar, Madan Puri, Nana Palsikar, Achala Sachdev, Laxmi Chhaya, Jagdish Raj, Tun Tun, Brahm Bhardwaj and Pakistani actor Suresh as the ensemble cast. The film was produced by Amarjeet. The film's score was composed by Shankar Jaikishan duo with lyrics provided by Hasrat Jaipuri, S. H. Bihari and Gopaldas Neeraj, edited by Shivaji Awdhut and was filmed by Faredoon A. Irani. The story revolves around three friends , how they face their problems in life, and how they recover from the problems in the rest of the story.  Plot  The movie revolves around three friends Amarnath, Gopal, and his sister, Mala. As Mala and Gopal's mother is a widow and is unable to care for both the children, she decides to let her Bombay-based cousin, Shobha R. Sharma, adopt Mala. Gopal is always in trouble with the villagers for petty theft, and when he learns that Mala has left, he too runs away from home...
Animal languages are forms of communication between non-human animals that show similarities to human language. Animals communicate through a variety of signs, such as sounds and movements. Signing among animals may be considered a form of language if the inventory of signs is large enough, the signs are relatively arbitrary, and the animals seem to produce them with a degree of volition as opposed to relatively automatic conditioned behaviors or unconditioned instincts, usually including facial expressions. The current academic consensus is that animal communication systems lack key aspects that might define them as languages , one such aspect being humans' creation of new patterns of signs under varied circumstances. Humans routinely produce entirely new combinations of words. Some researchers, including the linguist Charles Hockett, argue that human language and animal communication differ so much that the underlying principles are unrelated. Accordingly, linguist Thomas A. Sebeok has proposed to not use the term language for animal sign systems. However, other linguists and biologists, including Marc Hauser, Noam Chomsky, and W. Tecumseh Fitch...
The following is a list of countries and territories where English is an official language used in citizen interactions with government officials. As of 2026, there are 58 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign entities where English is an official language. Many administrative divisions have declared English an official language at the local or regional level. Most states where English is an official language are former territories of the British Empire. Exceptions include Rwanda and Burundi, which were formerly German and then Belgian colonies Cameroon, where only part of the country was under the British mandate and Liberia, the Philippines, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau, which were American territories. English is the sole official language of the Commonwealth of Nations and of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations . English is one of the official languages of the United Nations, the European Union, the African Union, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Caribbean Community, the Union of South American Nations, and many other international organisations. The United Kingdom, Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, and the United...
Georgian  , kartuli ena, pronounced  is the most widely spoken Kartvelian language. It is the official language of Georgia and the native or primary language of 88 of its population. It also serves as the literary language or lingua franca for speakers of related languages. Its speakers amount to approximately 3.8 million. Georgian is written with its own unique Georgian scripts, alphabetical systems of unclear origin. Georgian is not related to any of the world's major language families found outside of Georgia. It is most closely connected to other regional languages of Georgia, such as Mingrelian and, more distantly, Svan. Georgian has various dialects, with standard Georgian based on the Kartlian dialect, and all dialects are mutually intelligible. The history of Georgian spans from Early Old Georgian in the 5th century, to Modern Georgian. Its development as a written language began with the Christianization of Georgia in the 4th century. Georgian phonology features a rich consonant system, including aspirated, voiced, and ejective stops, affricates, and fricatives. Its vowel system consists of five vowels with varying realizations. Georgian prosody...
In linguistics, language death occurs when a language loses its last native speaker. By extension, language extinction is when the language is no longer known, including by second-language speakers, when it becomes known as dead or extinct. A related term is linguicide, the forced death of a language. The disappearance of a minor language as a result of the absorption or replacement by a major language is sometimes called glottophagy. Language death is a process in which the level of a speech community's linguistic competence in their language variety decreases, eventually resulting in no native speakers of the variety. Language death can affect any language form, including dialects. Language death should not be confused with language attrition , which describes the loss of proficiency in a first language of an individual. In the modern period c. 1500 CE-present following the rise of colonialism, language death has typically resulted from the process of cultural assimilation leading to language shift and the gradual abandonment of a native language in favour of a foreign lingua franca, largely those of European countries. As of the 2000s, a total...
Assamese, also known by its endonyms Asamiya or Oxomiya , is an Indo-Aryan language spoken mainly in the north-eastern Indian state of Assam, where it is an official language. It has long served as a lingua franca in parts of Northeast India. It has over 15 million native speakers and 8.3 million second language speakers according to Ethnologue, although this claim is widely disputed by academics, based on census figures. Assamese was designated as a classical Indian language by the Government of India on 3 October 2024 on account of its antiquity and literary traditions. Nefamese, an Assamese-based pidgin in Arunachal Pradesh, was used as a lingua franca before being replaced by Hindi and Nagamese, an Assamese-based Creole language, continues to be widely used in Nagaland. The Kamtapuri language of Rangpur Division of Bangladesh and the Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri districts of India is linguistically closest to Assamese and they both are descended from the Kamarupi Prakrit. In the past, it was the court language of the Ahom kingdom from the 17th century. After the differentiation of Maithili and Odia, Assamese was in its formative stages in the 12th century...
Quingnam , also called Pescadora and Chim, is an extinct, poorly attested Indigenous language formerly spoken by the Chim people on the coast of northern Peru. After the Spanish conquest, the language went into decline and was extinct by 1763. It is virtually unknown, with a list of numerals, proper names and a few other scattered words constituting the only data on this language. The language has been historically conflated with Mochica, another extinct language spoken in coastal Peru, but is completely distinct and unrelated to it.  Etymology  There are various possible etymologies for the name Quingnam, which is likely an exonym. The first links it to the Mochica word king 'to spin'. The name would thus mean 'to spin, for spinning', with the assumption of a metaphorical link between spinning and speech. Peruvian linguist Rodolfo Cerrn-Palomino, however, rejects this as a popular etymology. Salas Garca suggests that quingnam may mean 'fisherman' in Quingnam, but the word for 'fisherman' in locations where Quingnam was spoken is recorded as guaxme, guachemin or uachime instead. According to Matthias Urban...
Gothic is a now-extinct East Germanic language that was spoken by the Goths. It is known primarily from the Codex Argenteus, a 6th-century copy of a 4th-century Bible translation, and is the only East Germanic language with a sizeable text corpus. It is the earliest Germanic language that is attested in any sizable texts, but it lacks any modern descendants. The oldest documents in Gothic date back to the fourth century. The language was in decline by the mid-sixth century, partly because of the military defeat of the Goths at the hands of the Franks, the elimination of the Goths in Italy, and geographic isolation in Spain, the Gothic language lost its last and probably already declining function as a church language when the Visigoths converted from Arianism to Nicene Christianity in 589. The language survived as a domestic language in the Iberian Peninsula as late as the eighth century. Gothic-seeming terms are found in manuscripts subsequent to this date, but these may or may not belong to the same language. A language known as Crimean Gothic survived in Crimea as late as the second half of the 18th century. Lacking certain sound changes characteristic...
Welsh Cymraeg or y Gymraeg  is a Celtic language of the Brittonic subgroup that is native to the Welsh people. Welsh is spoken natively in Wales by about 18 of the population, by some in England, and in Y Wladfa the Welsh colony in Chubut Province, Argentina. Historically, it has also been known in English as British, Cambrian, Cambric and Cymric. The Welsh Language Measure 2011 gave the Welsh language official status in Wales. Welsh and English are de jure official languages of the Senedd . According to the 2021 census, 538,300 usual residents in Wales aged three or over were able to speak Welsh, while just over a quarter reported having some Welsh language skills. Other surveys have produced higher figures: a survey in 2022-2023 found that 34 of people aged 16 or over could speak Welsh of whom 18 per cent said they could speak Welsh, and 16 per cent said they had some Welsh speaking ability. In March 2026, other survey data estimated that 843,700 people aged three or over in Wales could speak Welsh. Almost half of all Welsh speakers consider themselves fluent, while 20 are able...
Quechua , also called Runa simi in Southern Quechua pronounced , 'people's language', is an indigenous language family that originated in central Peru and thereafter spread to other countries of the Andes. Derived from a common ancestral Proto-Quechua language, it is the most widely spoken pre-Columbian language family of the Americas, with an estimated 8-10 million speakers in 2004, and just under 7 million from the most recent census data available up to 2011. Approximately 13.9 of Peruvians speak a Quechua language. Although Quechua began expanding many centuries before the Incas, that previous expansion also meant that it was the primary language family within the Inca Empire. The Spanish tolerated its use until the Peruvian struggle for independence in the 1780s. As a result, various Quechua languages are still widely spoken, being the majority language in a number of regions of Peru, the most-spoken or co-official language in many others, and, as the Kichwa language, the second most-spoken language of Ecuador, after Spanish.  History  The Quechua linguistic homeland may have been Central Peru. It has been speculated that...
The Punic language, also called Phoenicio-Punic or Carthaginian, is an extinct variety of the Phoenician language, a Canaanite language of the Northwest Semitic branch of the Semitic languages. An offshoot of the Phoenician language of coastal West Asia , it was principally spoken on the Mediterranean coast of Northwest Africa, the Iberian Peninsula and several Mediterranean islands, such as Malta, Sicily, and Sardinia by the Punic people, or western Phoenicians, throughout classical antiquity, from the 8th century BC to the 6th century AD.  History   Early history  Punic is considered to have gradually separated from its Phoenician parent around the time that Carthage became the leading Phoenician city under Mago I, but scholarly attempts to delineate the dialects lack precision and generally disagree on the classification. The Punics stayed in contact with the homeland of Phoenicia until the destruction of Carthage by the Roman Republic in 146 BC. At first, there was not much difference between Phoenician and Punic. Developments in the language before 146 BC are largely hidden from us by the adherence of Carthaginian scribes to a traditional...
Cornish is a Celtic language of the Brittonic subgroup that is native to the Cornish people and their homeland, Cornwall. Along with Welsh and Breton, Cornish descends from Common Brittonic, a language once spoken widely across Great Britain. For much of the medieval period Cornish was the main language of Cornwall, until it was gradually pushed westwards by the spread of English. Cornish remained a common community language in parts of Cornwall until the mid-18th century, and there is some evidence for traditional speakers persisting into the 19th century. Cornish became extinct as a living language in Cornwall by the end of the 18th century but knowledge of Cornish persisted with some families and individuals. A revival started in the early 20th century, and in 2010 UNESCO reclassified the language as critically endangered, stating that its former classification of the language as extinct was no longer accurate. The language has a growing number of second-language speakers, and a small but increasing number of families now raise children to speak revived Cornish as a first language. Cornish is currently recognised under the European Charter for...
A modeling language is a notation for expressing data, information or knowledge or systems in a structure that is defined by a consistent set of rules. A modeling language can be graphical or textual. A graphical modeling language uses a diagramming technique with named symbols that represent concepts and lines that connect the symbols and represent relationships and various other graphical notation to represent constraints. A textual modeling language may use standardized keywords accompanied by parameters or natural language terms and phrases to make computer-interpretable expressions. An example of a graphical modeling language and a corresponding textual modeling language is EPRESS. Not all modeling languages are executable, and for those that are, the use of them doesn't necessarily mean that programmers are no longer required. On the contrary, executable modeling languages are intended to amplify the productivity of skilled programmers, so that they can address more challenging problems, such as parallel computing and distributed systems. A large number of modeling languages appear in the literature.  Type of modeling languages   Graphical types  Example of graphical...
A second language is a language spoken in addition to one's first language . A second language may be a neighbouring language, another language of the speaker's home country, or a foreign language. A speaker's dominant language, which is the language a speaker uses most or is most comfortable with, is not necessarily the speaker's first language. For example, the Canadian census defines first language for its purposes as What is the language that this person first learned at home in childhood and still understands?, recognizing that for some, the earliest language may be lost, a process known as language attrition. This can happen when young children start school or move to a new language environment.  Second-language acquisition  The distinction between acquiring and learning was made by Stephen Krashen as part of the monitor theory he developed in the 1970s and 1980s. According to Krashen, the acquisition of a language is a natural process whereas learning a language is a conscious one. In the former, the student needs to partake in natural communicative situations. In the latter, error correction is present, as is the study of grammatical rules isolated from natural...
International language may refer to: Esperanto, whose original name was international language Unua Libro or Dr. Esperanto's International Language, the first book detailing Esperanto International auxiliary language, a language meant for communication between people who do not share a common native language International English, a concept of the English language as a global means of communication International Sign Lingua franca, any language widely used beyond the population of its native speakers Love Mathematics Music Universal language, a hypothetical historical or mythical language said to be spoken and understood by all of the world's population World language, a language spoken internationally  Other uses  International Language , a 1993 album by Cabaret Voltaire
Loaded language is rhetoric used to influence an audience by using words and phrases with strong connotations. This type of language is very often made vague to more effectively invoke an emotional response andor exploit stereotypes. Loaded words and phrases have significant emotional implications and involve strongly positive or negative reactions beyond their literal meaning.  Definition  Loaded terms, also known as emotive or ethical words, were clearly described by Charles Stevenson. He noticed that there are words that do not merely describe a possible state of affairs. Terrorist is not used only to refer to a person who commits specific actions with a specific intent. Words such as torture and freedom carry with them something more than a simple description of a concept or an action. They have a magnetic effect, an imperative force, a tendency to influence the interlocutor's decisions. They are strictly bound to moral values leading to value judgements and potentially triggering specific emotions. For this reason, they have an emotive dimension. In the modern psychological terminology, we can say that these terms carry emotional valence, as they presuppose and generate...
An IETF BCP 47 language tag is a standardized code that is used to identify human languages on the Internet. The tag structure has been standardized by the Internet Engineering Task Force in Best Current Practice 47 the subtags are maintained by the IANA Language Subtag Registry. To distinguish language variants for countries, regions, or writing systems , IETF language tags combine subtags from other standards such as ISO 639, ISO 15924, ISO 3166-1 and UN M.49. For example, the tag en stands for English es-419 for Latin American Spanish rm-sursilv for Romansh Sursilvan sr-Cyrl for Serbian written in Cyrillic script nan-Hant-TW for Minnan using traditional Han characters, as spoken in Taiwan yue-Hant-HK for Cantonese using traditional Han characters, as spoken in Hong Kong and gsw-u-sd-chzh for Zrich German. It is used by computing standards such as HTTP, HTML, ML and PNG.  History  IETF language tags were first defined in Request for comment 1766, edited by Harald Tveit Alvestrand, published in March 1995. The tags used ISO 639 two-letter language codes and ISO 3166 two-letter country codes, and allowed registration of whole tags that included variant...
Kyrgyz is a Turkic language of the Kipchak branch spoken in Central Asia. It is the official language of Kyrgyzstan and a significant minority language in the Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture in injiang, China and in the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Region of Tajikistan. There is a very high level of mutual intelligibility between Kyrgyz, Kazakh, and Altay. A dialect of Kyrgyz known as Pamiri Kyrgyz is spoken in north-eastern Afghanistan and northern Pakistan. Kyrgyz is also spoken by many ethnic Kyrgyz through the former Soviet Union, Afghanistan, Turkey, parts of northern Pakistan, and Russia. Kyrgyz was originally written in Gktrk script, gradually replaced by the Perso-Arabic alphabet in use until 1928 in the USSR, still in use in China. Between 1928 and 1940, a Latin-script alphabet, the Uniform Turkic Alphabet, was used. In 1940, Soviet authorities replaced the Latin script with the Cyrillic alphabet for all Turkic languages on its territory. When Kyrgyzstan became independent following the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991, a plan to adopt the Latin alphabet became popular. Although the plan has not been implemented, it remains in occasional discussion.  Classification... 
Angelic language, language of angels, or tongues of angels may refer to: Angelic tongues, the languages believed by some religious traditions to be used by angels Enochian, an occult constructed language recorded in the private journals of John Dee and his colleague Edward Kelley in late 16th-century England Language of Angels, a 2000 play by Naomi Iizuka Speaking in tongues, a phenomenon or practice in which people utter words or speech-like sounds, often thought by believers to be languages unknown to the speaker Tongues of angels, languages mentioned by Paul the Apostle in the First Epistle to the Corinthians Tongues of Angels , an episode of the television series Studio One  See also  Angelic alphabet
The number of languages natively spoken in Africa is variously estimated depending on the delineation of language vs. dialect at between 1,250 and 2,100, and by some counts at over 3,000. Nigeria alone has over 500 languages , one of the greatest concentrations of linguistic diversity in the world. The languages of Africa belong to many distinct language families, among which the largest are: Niger-Congo, which include the large Atlantic-Congo and Bantu branches in West, Central, Southeast and Southern Africa. Afroasiatic languages are spread throughout Western Asia, North Africa, the Horn of Africa and parts of the Sahel. Saharan, Nilotic and Central Sudanic languages grouped under the hypothetical Nilo-Saharan macro-family, are present in East Africa and Sahel. Austronesian languages are spoken in Madagascar and parts of the Comoros. Khoe-Kwadi languages are spoken mostly in Namibia and Botswana. Indo-European languages, while not indigenous to Africa, are spoken in South Africa and Namibia and are used as lingua francas in Liberia and the former colonies of the United Kingdom , former colonies of France and of...
The Afroasiatic languages also known as the Afro-Asiatic, Afrasian, Hamito-Semitic, or Semito-Hamitic languages are a language family of about 400 languages spoken predominantly in West Asia, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and parts of the Sahara and Sahel. Over 500 million people are native speakers of an Afroasiatic language, constituting the fourth-largest language family after Indo-European, Sino-Tibetan, and Niger-Congo. Most linguists divide the family into six branches: Berber, Chadic, Cushitic, Egyptian, Omotic, and Semitic. The vast majority of Afroasiatic languages are considered indigenous to the African continent, including all those not belonging to the Semitic branch . The five most spoken languages in the family are: Arabic , which is by far the most widely spoken within the family, with estimates of the number of native speakers ranging between 300 and 411 million, concentrated primarily in West Asia and North Africa the Chadic Hausa language, with over 58 million speakers in West Africa the Cushitic Oromo language, with 45 million native speakers the Semitic Amharic language, with an estimated 25-35...
The Smi languages , also rendered in English as Sami and Saami, are a group of Uralic languages spoken by the indigenous Smi people in Northern Europe in parts of northern Finland, Norway, Sweden, and northwesternmost Russia. There are, depending on the nature and terms of division, ten or more Sami languages. Several spellings have been used for the Smi languages, including Smi, Sami, Saami, Saame, Smic, Samic and Saamic, as well as the exonyms Lappish and Lappic. The last two, along with the term Lapp, are sometimes considered pejorative.  Classification  The Smi languages form a branch of the Uralic language family. According to the traditional view, Smi is within the Uralic family most closely related to the Finnic languages . However, this view has recently been doubted by some scholars who argue that the traditional view of a common Finno-Sami protolanguage is not as strongly supported as had been earlier assumed, and that the similarities may stem from an areal influence on Smi from Finnic. In terms of internal relationships, the Smi languages are traditionally divided into the two groups of western and eastern...
Bulgarian is an Eastern South Slavic language spoken in Southeast Europe, primarily in Bulgaria. It is the language of the Bulgarians. Along with the closely related Macedonian language , it is a member of the Balkan sprachbund and South Slavic dialect continuum of the Indo-European language family. The two languages have several characteristics that set them apart from all other Slavic languages, including the elimination of case declension, the development of a suffixed definite article, and the lack of a verb infinitive. They retain and have further developed the Proto-Slavic verb system . One such major development is the innovation of evidential verb forms to encode for the source of information: witnessed, inferred, or reported. It is the official language of Bulgaria, and since 2007 has been among the official languages of the European Union. It is also spoken by the Bulgarian communities in Ukraine, North Macedonia, Moldova, Serbia, Romania, Hungary, Albania, Greece and Turkey.  History  One can divide the development of the Bulgarian language into several periods. The Prehistoric period covers the time between...
The Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: Learning, Teaching, Assessment, abbreviated in English as CEFR, CEF, or CEFRL, is a guideline used to describe achievements of learners of foreign languages across Europe and, increasingly, in other countries. The CEFR is also intended to make it easier for educational institutions and employers to evaluate the language qualifications of candidates for education admission or employment. Its main aim is to provide a method of teaching, and assessing that applies to all languages in Europe. The CEFR was established by the Council of Europe between 1986 and 1989 as part of the Language Learning for European Citizenship project. In November 2001, a European Union Council Resolution recommended using the CEFR to set up systems of validation of language ability. The six reference levels are becoming widely accepted as the European standard for grading an individual's language proficiency. As of 2024, localized versions of the CEFR exist in Japan, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, and Mexico, with the Malaysian government writing that CEFR is a suitable and credible benchmark for English standards in Malaysia...
Ndebele language may refer to: Northern Ndebele language or Zimbabwean Ndebele, spoken in Zimbabwe Southern Ndebele language or Transvaal Ndebele, spoken in South Africa Sumayela Ndebele language or Transvaal ndebele, spoken in South Africa  See also  Nguni languages, the language family to which all of the above belong
Bhojpuri IPA:  Devanagari: , Kaithi: ,  is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Bhojpur-Purvanchal region of India and the Terai region of Nepal. It is chiefly spoken in eastern Uttar Pradesh, western Bihar, and northwestern Jharkhand in India, as well as western Madhesh and eastern Lumbini in Nepal. According to the 2011 Census of India, it is spoken by approximately 50.5 million people. It is also a minority language in Fiji, Mauritius, and historically primarily in the Natal province of South Africa. Fiji Hindi, an official language of Fiji, is a variant of Awadhi and Bhojpuri spoken by the Indo-Fijians. Caribbean Hindustani, another language influenced by Awadhi and Bhojpuri is spoken by the Indo-Caribbean people in Guyana, Suriname, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. In Mauritius, it is recognised by the government and taught in university as well. Bhojpuri is listed as a potentially vulnerable language in the UNESCO World Atlas of Languages.  Name  The oldest presence of the word Bhojpuri is found as Bodjpooria in 1789 in the translator's preface of a book titled A Translation of the Sir Mutaqherin, which is a translation of a Persian book...
Tatar  TAH-tr Tatar:  , romanized: tatar tele or , romanized: tatara is a Turkic language spoken by the Tatars mainly located in modern Republic of Tatarstan, wider Volga-Ural region, as well as many other regions of Russia. Tatar belongs to the Kipchak branch of Turkic languages, the same branch as Bashkir, Kazakh, Nogai and Kyrgyz. The two main dialects of Tatar are the Central Dialect , and the Western Dialect . The literary Tatar language is based on the Central Dialect and on a local variant of Trki. Tatar should not be confused with Crimean Tatar or Siberian Tatar, which are different languages, although also part of the Kipchak language group. Like other Turkic languages, Tatar was traditionally written in the Arabic script for most of its history. Since 1939, the alphabet has been Cyrillic, though a number of Latin-based versions have also been used over the years.  Geographic distribution  The Tatar language is spoken by about 5 million people. Most speakers live in Russia, but there are also communities in Azerbaijan, China, Finland, Georgia, Israel, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Turkey, Ukraine...
Be , also known as Ong Be, B, or Vo Limgao , is a pair of languages spoken by 600,000 people, 100,000 of them monolingual, on the north-central coast of Hainan Island, including the suburbs of the provincial capital Haikou. The speakers are counted as part of the Han Chinese nationality in census. According to Ethnologue, it is taught in primary schools.  Names  Be speakers refer to themselves as avo, with a being the prefix for persons and vo meaning 'village'. Liang notes that it is similar to the autonym aufn from au 'person' and fn 'village', by which Gelong  speakers refer to themselves.  Classification  The Be languages are a pair of Kra-Dai languages, but its precise relationship to other branches within the Kra-Dai family has yet not been conclusively determined. Hansell considers Be to be a sister of the Tai branch based on shared vocabulary, and proposes a Be-Tai grouping. Based on toponymic evidence from place names with the prefix dya- , Jinfang Li considers Be to have originated from the Leizhou peninsula of Guangdong province...
Hindustani is an Indo-Aryan language spoken across India's Hindi Belt and Pakistan as the lingua franca of the region. It is also spoken by the Deccani-speaking community in South India. Hindustani is a pluricentric language with two standard registers, known as Hindi Prakritised and Sanskritised register written in the Brahmic script and Urdu Persianised and Arabised register written in the Perso-Arabic script, which serve as official languages of India and Pakistan, respectively. Thus, it is also called Hindi-Urdu. Colloquial registers of the language fall on a spectrum between these standards. The concept of a Hindustani language as a unifying language or fusion language that could transcend communal and religious divisions across the subcontinent was endorsed by Mahatma Gandhi, as it was not seen to be associated with either the Hindu or Muslim communities as was the case with Hindi and Urdu respectively, and it was also considered a simpler language for people to learn. The conversion from Hindi to Urdu is generally achieved by merely transliterating between the two scripts. Translation, on the other hand, is generally only required for religious and literary...
Manx endonym: Gaelg, y Ghaelg or Gailck, y Ghailck, pronounced , also known as Manx Gaelic, is a Gaelic language of the insular Celtic branch of the Celtic language family, itself a branch of the Indo-European language family. Manx is the heritage language of the Manx people. Although no children native to the Isle of Man speak Manx as a first language, there has been a steady increase in the number of speakers since 1974, when Ned Maddrell, considered the last speaker to grow up in a Manx-speaking community environment, died. Despite this, the language has never fallen completely out of use, with a minority having some knowledge of it as a heritage language, and it is still an important part of the island's culture and cultural heritage. Manx is often cited as a good example of language revitalization efforts in 2021, around 2,023 people had varying levels of second-language conversational ability. Since the late 20th century, Manx has become more visible on the island, with increased signage, radio broadcasts and a Manx-medium primary school. The revival of Manx has been made easier because the language was well recorded, e.g. the Bible and the Book of Common...
Scottish language may refer to: Scots language , a Germanic language spoken in Lowland Scotland and Ulster, native to southeast Scotland Scottish Gaelic , a Celtic language native to the Scottish Highlands Scottish English, the varieties of English spoken in Scotland Scottish Language, a peer-reviewed journal of Scottish languages and linguistics, published by the Association for Scottish Literary Studies  See also  Languages of Scotland, the languages spoken or once spoken in Scotland
Kurdish is a Northwestern Iranian language or group of languages spoken by Kurds in the region of Kurdistan, namely in southeast Turkey, northern Iraq, northwest Iran, and northern Syria. It is also spoken in northeast Iran, as well as in certain areas of Armenia and Azerbaijan. Kurdish varieties constitute a dialect continuum except for Zaza, with some mutually unintelligible varieties, and collectively have 29 million native speakers. The main varieties of Kurdish are Kurmanji, Sorani, and Southern Kurdish . The majority of the Kurds speak Kurmanji, and most Kurdish texts are written in Kurmanji and Sorani. Kurmanji is written in the Hawar alphabet, a derivation of the Latin script, and Sorani is written in the Sorani alphabet, a derivation of the Arabic script. A separate group of non-Kurdish Northwestern Iranian languages, the Zaza-Gorani languages, are also spoken by several million ethnic Kurds. The literary output in Kurdish was mostly confined to poetry until the early 20th century, when more general literature became developed. Today, the two principal written Kurdish dialects are Kurmanji and Sorani. Sorani is, along with Arabic...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 944 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
Computational science, also known as scientific computing, technical computing or scientific computation , is a division of science, and more specifically the computer sciences, which uses advanced computing capabilities to understand and solve complex physical problems in science. While this typically extends into computational specializations, this field of study includes: Algorithms : mathematical models, computational models, and computer simulations developed to solve sciences , engineering, and humanities problems Computer hardware that develops and optimizes the advanced system hardware, firmware, networking, and data management components needed to solve computationally demanding problems The computing infrastructure that supports both the science and engineering problem solving and the developmental computer and information science In practical use, it is typically the application of computer simulation and other forms of computation from numerical analysis and theoretical computer science to solve problems in various scientific disciplines. The field is different from theory and laboratory experiments...
In computer science, decomposition is the process of identifying and organising a complex system into smaller components or layers of abstraction. Decomposition is the opposite process of composition, and is often used in object-oriented programming , structured programming, and structured analysis. A decomposition paradigm in software engineering is a strategy for organising a program as a number of parts, and usually implies a specific way to organise source code. Typically, the aim of using a decomposition paradigm is to optimise some metric related to program complexity, for example, modularity or maintainability. Most decomposition paradigms suggest breaking down a program into parts to minimise the static dependencies between those parts, and to maximise each part's cohesiveness. Popular decomposition paradigms include the procedural, modular, abstract data type, and object-oriented paradigms. Generally, functional decomposition in computer science is a technique for describing the complexity of the function of a model, describing an overarching function model as the summation of the series of functional models of subsystems. Object-oriented decomposition breaks a large...
A botnet is a group of Internet-connected devices, each of which runs one or more bots. Botnets can be used to perform distributed denial-of-service attacks, steal data, send spam, and allow the attacker to access the device and its connection. The owner can control the botnet using command and control software. The word botnet is a portmanteau of the words robot and network. The term is usually used with a negative or malicious connotation.  Overview  A botnet is a logical collection of Internet-connected devices, such as computers, smartphones or Internet of things devices whose security has been breached and control ceded to a third party. Each compromised device, known as a bot, is created when a device is penetrated by software from a malware distribution. The controller of a botnet can direct the activities of these compromised computers through communication channels formed by network protocols, such as Internet Relay Chat and Hypertext Transfer Protocol . Operating, building, or using a botnet to access or control devices without their owners' authorization is illegal in most jurisdictions and is regularly prosecuted...
This is a list of people who made transformative breakthroughs in the creation, development and imagining of what computers could do.  Pioneers   Items marked with a tilde are circa dates.  See also  Computer Pioneer Award IEEE John von Neumann Medal Grace Murray Hopper Award History of computing History of computing hardware History of computing hardware History of software List of computer science awards List of computer science journals List of computer scientists List of Internet pioneers List of pioneers in computer science List of people considered father or mother of a field  Computing The Man Who Invented the Computer List of Russian IT developers List of Women in Technology International Hall of Fame inductees Timeline of computing Turing Award Women in computing  References   Sources  Hamming, Richard W. . Error detecting and error correcting codes . Bell System Technical Journal. 29 : 147-160. Bibcode:1950BSTJ...29..147H. doi:10.1002j.1538-7305.1950.tb00463.x. hdl:1094546756. MR 0035935. S2CID 61141773. Archived from the original on 2006-05-25. Ling, San ing, Chaoping . Coding Theory: a First...
In computer science, a lock or mutex is a synchronization primitive that prevents state from being modified or accessed by multiple threads of execution at once. Locks enforce mutual exclusion concurrency control policies, and with a variety of possible methods there exist multiple unique implementations for different applications.  Types  Generally, locks are advisory locks, where each thread cooperates by acquiring the lock before accessing the corresponding data. Some systems also implement mandatory locks, where attempting unauthorized access to a locked resource will force an exception in the entity attempting to make the access. The simplest type of lock is a binary semaphore. It provides exclusive access to the locked data. Other schemes also provide shared access for reading data. Other widely implemented access modes are exclusive, intend-to-exclude and intend-to-upgrade. Another way to classify locks is by what happens when the lock strategy prevents the progress of a thread. Most locking designs block the execution of the thread requesting the lock until it is allowed to access the locked resource. With a spinlock, the thread simply waits spins...
A programmer, computer programmer or coder is an author of computer source code, or someone with skill in computer programming. The professional titles software developer and software engineer may be used for jobs that require a programmer.  Job title  A software developer primarily implements software based on specifications and fixes bugs. Other duties may include reviewing code changes and testing. To achieve the required skills for the job, they might obtain a computer science or associate degree, attend a programming boot camp or be self-taught. A software engineer usually is responsible for the same tasks as a developer plus broader responsibilities of software engineering including architecting and designing new features and applications, targeting new platforms, managing the software development lifecycle design, implementation, testing, and deployment, leading a team of programmers, communicating with customers, managers and other engineers, considering system stability and quality, and exploring software development methodologies. Sometimes, a software engineer is required to have a degree in software engineering, computer engineering, or computer science. Some countries...
In computer science, thrashing occurs in a system with memory paging when a computer's real memory resources are overcommitted, leading to a constant state of paging and page faults, slowing most application-level processing. This causes the performance of the computer to degrade or even collapse. The situation can continue indefinitely until the user closes some running applications or the active processes free up additional virtual memory resources. After initialization, most programs operate on a small number of code and data pages compared to the total memory the program requires. The pages most frequently accessed at any point are called the working set, which may change over time. When the working set is not significantly greater than the system's total number of real storage page frames, virtual memory systems work most efficiently, and an insignificant amount of computing is spent resolving page faults. As the total of the working sets grows, resolving page faults remains manageable until the growth reaches a critical point at which the number of faults increases dramatically and the time spent resolving them overwhelms the time...
Blood is a 2012 thriller film directed by Nick Murphy and written by Bill Gallagher. The plot is about two brothers who are policemen and charts the moral collapse of a police family. The two brothers, played by Paul Bettany and Stephen Graham must investigate a despicable crime in a small town, in the shadow of their former police chief father. The film is a cinematic remake of the 2004 BBC television mini series Conviction, which Gallagher also wrote.  Plot  While trying to solve a vicious murder in a small town, two detectives Joe and Chrissie wind up murdering the suspected perpetrator. What follows brings them on a journey through fear and drives them to turn on each other. All whilst under the gaze of their police force colleague, Robert . The investigation and ultimate crime turn their lives into a downward spiral of guilt and paranoia.  Cast  Paul Bettany as Joe Fairburn Mark Strong as Robert Seymour Stephen Graham as Chrissie Fairburn Brian Cox as Lanny Fairburn Naomi Battrick as Miriam Fairburn Ben Crompton as Jason Buleigh Natasha Little as Lily Fairburn Zo Tapper as Jemma Vern Adrian...
Ben-Zion Sternberg Hebrew: -  1894 - May 31, 1962, was a Romanian Zionist and signatory of the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel. Sternberg was born in Czernowitz, Bukovina, a region of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, to a relatively prosperous local Jewish family. His father Abraham was a landowner in the thriving Jewish community of Bukovina.  Pre World War II  Sternberg was a prominent local Zionist from a young age. In 1914 put his nationalist aspirations on hold to serve as an officer of Austria-Hungary during the First World War. Prior to and following the war, Sternberg was a leading member of the Hebronia movement, a leading local Zionist movement. In 1920 he addressed 600 visiting Romanian dignitaries Czernowitz became a part of newly enlarged Romania following the dissolution of Austria-Hungary in Hebrew, marking the first significant attempt to bring the rebirth of the language to the attention of a non-Jewish audience. Following the Treaty of Versailles and Britain's assuming the mandate for Palestine, Sternberg affiliated himself closely with the Revisionist movement - an affiliation which he was to retain for the rest of...
Rhetorica: A Journal of the History of Rhetoric is the official publication of the International Society for the History of Rhetoric. It is a peer-reviewed quarterly academic journal published University of California Press, in Berkeley, California. The journal includes articles, book reviews and bibliographies that examine the theory and practice of rhetoric in all periods and languages and their relationship with poetics, philosophy, religion and law. The official languages of the Society and of the journal are English, French, German, Italian, Latin, and Spanish, with articles and features corresponding.  External links  Official website International Society for the History of Rhetoric Official website
Ohio High School, or OHS, is a public four-year high school located at 103 Memorial Street in Ohio, Illinois, a village in Bureau County, Illinois, in the Midwestern United States. OHS serves the community and surrounding area of Ohio. The campus is located 25 miles southeast of Sterling, Illinois, and serves a mixed village and rural residential community. It is operated by the Ohio Community High School District 505, which includes Ohio. The district is mostly in Bureau County, and extends into Lee County.  Academics  Ohio High School did not make Adequate Yearly Progress, with 12 of students meeting or exceeding expectations, on the Prairie State Achievement Exam , Illinois' state test that is part of the No Child Left Behind Act. The average high school graduation rate between 1999 and 2009 was 56.  Athletics  Ohio High School is a member school in the Illinois High School Association. Their mascot is the Bulldogs, with school colors of purple and gold. The school has no state championships on record in team athletics and activities. Due to OHS' small enrollment, they coop with neighboring schools Amboy and La Moille High Schools for most sports.  Cooperative... 
The Derbyshire Record Office, established in 1962, is the county record office for Derbyshire, England. It holds archives and local studies material for the County of Derbyshire and the City of Derby and Diocese of Derby. It is situated in Matlock. The Record Office contains more than four miles of original Derbyshire records. Derbyshire County Council has been collecting records since 1889, but it was not until 1962 the Derbyshire Record Office was opened. In 2013, the Local Studies Library in Matlock joined the Derbyshire Record Office. To enable this to happen the building was refurbished and an extension was built costing 4 million. The first County Archivist was Joan Sinar, previously County Archivist at Devon Record Office. She was succeeded by Margaret O'Sullivan.  Archive Collection  Official records of the County council, City Council, Borough Councils, District Councils, Town Councils and Parish councils along with their predecessors Records for hospitals, workhouses, police, local courts, schools, wills and further education institutions Diocesan and other churchparish records including the Diocese of Derby official records and registers for over 400 Anglican parishes...
Acinetobacter schindleri is a species of bacteria. It is potentially pathogenic. Its type strain is LUH 5832T .  References   Further reading  Loubinoux J, Mihaila-Amrouche L, Le Fleche A, et al. . Bacteremia caused by Acinetobacter ursingii. Journal of Clinical Microbiology. 41 : 1337-8. doi:10.1128jcm.41.3.1337-1338.2003. PMC 150291. PMID 12624081. McGann, P. Milillo, M. Clifford, R. J. Snesrud, E. Stevenson, L. Backlund, M. G. Viscount, H. B. Quintero, R. Kwak, Y. I. Zapor, M. J. Waterman, P. E. Lesho, E. P. . Detection of New Delhi Metallo- -Lactamase in Acinetobacter schindleri during Routine Surveillance. Journal of Clinical Microbiology. 51 : 1942-1944. doi:10.1128JCM.00281-13. ISSN 0095-1137. PMC 3716100. PMID 23554204.  External links  Type strain of Acinetobacter schindleri at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Jagdgeschwader 302 was a Luftwaffe fighter-wing of World War II. JG 302 was formed on 1 November 1943 in Stade, Germany with a theoretical establishment of Stab and three Gruppen known as a Wilde Sau single-seat night fighter unit. After re-equipping with the Focke-Wulf 190 A-8, I.JG 302 was redesignated III.JG 301 on 30 September. JG 302 made a known total of at least 348 air victory claims  Operations 1944  The unit's primary mission, when formed in late 1943, was to intercept Royal Air Force heavy bombers at night, flying modified single-engined day fighters. Eventually JG 302 also engaged United States Army Air Forces bombers by day. Initially, the pilots recruited were a mix of former bomber pilots and instructors, experienced in night and instrument flying. During the night of 22 November, Hauptmann Heinrich Wurzer shot down a RAF Lancaster bomber for his first victory and on 14 January 1944 was appointed Staffelkapitn of 1.JG 302. On 67 February 1944 the Soviet Long-Range Bomber Force launched a series of large scale air raids against Helsinki. Thus, early in 1944 elements...
Spisk Teplica Hungarian: Szepestapolca, German: Zeplitz is a large village and municipality in Poprad District in the Preov Region of northern Slovakia. It lies on the foothills of High Tatras.  Geography  The municipality lies at an altitude of 697 metres and covers an area of 31.11 km2 .  History  In historical records the village was first mentioned in 1280.  Population  It has a population of 2303 people .  Ethnicity  In year 2021 was 2253 people by ethnicity 2167 as Slovak, 85 as Romani, 75 as Not found out, 10 as Czech, 8 as Other, 4 as Rusyn, 4 as Polish, 3 as Vietnamese, 3 as Hungarian, 3 as English, 2 as Irish, 2 as Russian, 2 as German, 2 as French, 1 as Ukrainian, 1 as Italian and 1 as Bulgarian. Note on population: The difference values of population numbers in the table Population statistic and in the sections Ethnicity  Religion is caused by the use of various statistical methods.  Religion  In year 2021 was 2253 people by religion 1765 from Roman Catholic Church, 276 from None, 84 from Not found out, 40 from Greek Catholic Church, 39 from Evangelical Church, 20 from...
Timur Morgunov is a Russian track and field athlete specialising in the pole vault. As an Authorised Neutral Athlete, he won the silver medal at the 2018 European Athletics Championships. He did not compete at the 2020 Summer Olympics as he was not granted neutral status.  References  Timur Morgunov at World Athletics
This is a bibliography of works on World War II. The bibliography aims to include primary, secondary and tertiary sources regarding the European theatre of World War II and the Pacific War . By extension, it includes works regarding the Second Sino-Japanese War . Additionally, the scope of the bibliography expands to the causes of World War II and the immediate aftermath of World War II, such as evacuation and expulsion and war crimes trials including the Nuremberg Trials and the Tokyo Trials. Works on the causes or the aftermath of World War II should only be included if they describe the respective events in the specific context of and relation to the conflict itself. There are thousands of books written about World War II therefore, this is not an all-inclusive list. This bibliography also does not aim to include fictional works . It does not aim to include self-published works, unless there is a very good reason to do so.  Origins of World War II  The following lists should include works of secondary literature that are concerned mainly with the origins of World War II in general or with the entry into...
Greene v Associated Newspapers Ltd EWCA Civ 1462 is a case of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales that governs the use of injunctions against publication in alleged defamation cases. Greene, a businesswoman, sought an injunction against Associated Newspapers Ltd to prevent them publishing alleged links with Peter Foster while they claimed to have emails showing links, she asserted that they were false. The test at the time for a preliminary injunction in defamation cases was Bonnard v Perryman, where it was established that the applicant has to show a real prospect of success at trial. The Human Rights Act 1998 established that judges should consider whether applicants are more likely than not to succeed at trial, a test applied to confidentiality cases in Cream Holdings Ltd v Banerjee and the Liverpool Post and Echo Ltd. Greene claimed that the Cream test should be applied rather than the Bonnard test. The case first went to the High Court of Justice, where it was heard by Fulford J he decided that he did not have the authority to overrule Bonnard, and passed the case on to the Court of Appeal after granting a temporary injunction. In the Court of Appeal, the case...
Wat Phra Phutthabat Tak Pha is a Buddhist temple in Makok in Lamphun province, Thailand. It received official recognition on 25 October 1973 and became a third-class royal temple of the common type on 31 May 1978. The name of the temple refers to a footprint of the Buddha within the temple grounds and to the belief that the Buddha once dried his robes nearby. The temple's chedi sits at the top of a steep hill. It can be reached by climbing a Nga staircase of 469 steps or by taking the road on the other side. Somes scenes in the 1988 film Rambo III were filmed at the temple.  Notes   References   External links  Media related to Wat Phra Phutthabat Tak Pha at Wikimedia Commons
Sante Santos Pucello is an Italian DJ and musician. In 1992, he started making music with his friend, and he recorded his first record two years later. In 1995, Mantra Vibes released his track The Piano. In 2001, Camels peaked at 9 in the UK Singles Chart, following support from Pete Tong, Annie Nightingale, Judge Jules and Basement Jaxx. Soon after, his first album, R U Shakadelic? was released.  References 
Lolita Chatterjee was an actress who worked in Bengali Cinema. She made her debut as an adult in 1964 and played her first role in the Bengali classic 'Bibhas' alongside Uttam Kumar.  Career  She made her debut as a child actor in 1949 film Ananya. She later acted in a Bengali classic 'Bibhas' alongside Uttam Kumar. Afterwards, she acted in a few other Bengali films and then eventually moved to Mumbai. She acted in films in the 1960s and '70s, Bollywood films, and was cast in small yet important roles in 'Raat Andheri Thi', 'Aap Ki Kasam', 'Talaash', 'Victoria No. 203' and 'Pushpanjali'. Her last film was Jonaki directed by Aditya Vikram Sengupta. She died following a cerebral stroke in Kolkata nursing, at the age of 81.  References   External links  Lolita Chatterjee at IMDb
The 53rd Street Crosstown Line was a surface transit line in Manhattan, New York City, United States, running along 53rd Street in Midtown, between Sixth Avenue and Ninth Avenue. It served as a connection between north-south lines during the times that they were not affiliated with the 59th Street Crosstown Line. The street is no longer used by buses, which now use 59th Street to make the crosstown connection.  History  The tracks in 53rd Street were added in 1894, when the Broadway and Columbus Avenue Line, a cable car line, opened. However, the Metropolitan had a lease on the Central Park, North and East River Railroad, the owner of the 59th Street Crosstown Line, and used 59th Street as a connection in the Sixth and Amsterdam Avenues Line. After the Broadway and Columbus Avenue Line was converted to electricity in 1901, those cars were also moved to 59th Street, and a new service - the 53rd Street Line - was added. The route began at Sixth Avenue and 50th Street and traveled north on Sixth Avenue for three blocks, west on 53rd Street to Ninth Avenue, and north on Ninth Avenue to 54th Street. Effective August 6, 1908, the CPNER was separated from the bankrupt Metropolitan, and...
yvor Hansson, ne Styren was a Norwegian politician for Nasjonal Samling. She co-founded the Nasjonal Samling's Women's Organisation. She started out as secretary under Marie Irgens before serving as leader from 1935 to 1941, when succeeded by Olga Bjoner. She was highly supportive of Vidkun Quisling during the party's in-fighting in the 1930s, and for the 1936 Norwegian parliamentary election she was placed third on the party ballot in Oslo headed by Quisling. During the remainder of the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany, from 1942 to 1945, she worked as an assistant secretary in the Ministry of Social Affairs. She died in 1975. She was a daughter of treasurer M. H. Styren and Inga, ne Johannessen . From 1915 she was married to General Halvor Hansson, who turned out to be a highly decorated member of the resistance to German rule and the Nasjonal Samling authorities. The couple were divorced.  References 
The Cathedral Basilica of the National Shrine of Our Lady Aparecida Portuguese: Catedral Baslica do Santurio Nacional de Nossa Senhora Aparecida is a prominent Catholic basilica in Aparecida, Brazil. It is dedicated to Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Aparecida, the principal patroness of Brazil. It is the largest cathedral in the world, and the second largest Catholic church by interior area and volume, after St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City. As a cathedral, it is the seat of the Archdiocese of Aparecida.  History  The site has its origins in the finding of a small dark clay statue of the Virgin Mary. According to local tradition, three fishermen were attempting to catch a large amount of fish in the Paraba River for a banquet honoring the visit of So Paulo governor Pedro de Almeida in 1717. Despite their prayers, their attempts were fruitless until late in the day, one of the fishermen cast his net and pulled it back to find a headless statue of the Virgin Mary. Upon his next cast, he found the head. The group cleaned the statue, wrapped it in cloth, and returned to their task to find their fortunes had changed and they were able to obtain all the fish they needed...
Gastrioceratidae is one of five families of the Gastrioceratoidea superfamily. They are an extinct group of ammonoid, which are shelled cephalopods related to squids, belemnites, octopuses, and cuttlefish, and more distantly to the nautiloids.  References  The Paleobiology Database accessed on 100107
Brown Engineering may refer to: Brown University School of Engineering at Brown University, in Providence, Rhode Island George R. Brown School of Engineering at Rice University, in Houston, Texas Teledyne Brown Engineering at Teledyne Technologies, an American industrial company
Language engineering involves the creation of natural language processing systems, whose cost and outputs are measurable and predictable. It is a distinct field contrasted to natural language processing and computational linguistics. A recent trend of language engineering is the use of Semantic Web technologies for the creation, archiving, processing, and retrieval of machine processable language data. Meta-Language Engineering is a proposed extension of Language Engineering first recorded in 2025, associated with the work of Delyone de Paula Canedo Filho. The term is used to designate an approach that, in addition to natural language processing, encompasses the symbolic, cognitive, and epistemological structuring of language systems.  References 
Mining engineering is the extraction of minerals from the ground. It is associated with many other disciplines, such as mineral processing, exploration, excavation, geology, metallurgy, geotechnical engineering and surveying. A mining engineer may manage any phase of mining operations, from exploration and discovery of the mineral resources, through feasibility study, mine design, development of plans, production and operations to mine closure.  History of mining engineering  From prehistoric times to the present, mining has played a significant role in the existence of the human race. Since the beginning of civilization, people have used stone and ceramics and, later, metals found on or close to the Earth's surface. These were used to manufacture early tools and weapons. For example, high-quality flint found in northern France and southern England were used to set fire and break rock. Flint mines have been found in chalk areas where seams of the stone were followed underground by shafts and galleries. The oldest known mine on the archaeological record is the Lion Cave in Eswatini. At this site, which radiocarbon dating indicates to be about 43,000 years old, paleolithic humans...
Lotus Group also known as Lotus Cars, or simply Lotus is a British multinational automotive manufacturer of luxury sports cars and electric vehicles. Lotus Group is composed of three primary entities. Lotus Cars is a high-performance sports car company based in Hethel, Norfolk. Lotus Technology Inc. is an all-electric lifestyle vehicle company, headquartered in Wuhan, China, that operates regional facilities in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Germany. Additionally, Lotus Engineering is an engineering consultancy firm headquartered at the Lotus Advanced Technology Centre located at the University of Warwick's Wellesbourne Campus. Lotus was founded by Colin Chapman and owned by him until his death in 1982. After this and a period of financial instability, Lotus was bought by General Motors, then Romano Artioli and then DRB-HICOM through its subsidiary Proton, which owned Lotus from 1996 to 2017. Lotus is currently fully owned by Chinese multinational Geely. Between 2017 and 2025, Lotus traded as Lotus NYO in China due to a trademark dispute with Youngman. Lotus was previously involved in Formula One racing, via Team Lotus, winning the Formula One World...
Commonwealth Engineering, often shortened to Com-Eng, later known as Comeng , was an Australian engineering company that designed and built railway locomotives, rolling stock and trams.  History  Smith and Waddington, the predecessor to Commonwealth Engineering, was founded in 1921, in the Sydney suburb of Camperdown, as a body builder for custom motor cars. It went bankrupt in the Great Depression, and was reformed as Waddingtons Body Works and the main factory was moved to Granville, after a fire in the main workshop. The Government of Australia took control of the company during World War II as the company was in serious financial difficulties but had many government orders in its books. The government purchased a controlling stake in the company in 1946 and changed the name to Commonwealth Engineering. In 1949 a factory was established in Rocklea, Queensland. This was followed in 1952 by a plant in Bassendean, Western Australia and in 1954 by another in Dandenong, Victoria. Another factory was established in Braemar, NSW in 1973, as Mittagong Engineering. This was established not only to take some of the workload off the Granville plant but to potentially replace...
A digital twin is a computational model of an intended or actual real-world physical product, system, or process that serves as a digital counterpart of it for purposes such as simulation, integration, testing, monitoring, and maintenance. By its strict definition, a digital twin is distinguished from an ordinary simulation in that it continuously uses real data from its physical counterpart to dynamically synchronize with the real system. A model that operates without data from its physical counterpart may also be described as a digital twin, but this is considered an overly broad and largely marketing-oriented interpretation of the concept. A digital twin is a set of adaptive models that emulate the behaviour of a physical system in a virtual system getting real-time data to update itself along its life cycle. The digital twin replicates the physical system to predict failures and opportunities for changing, to prescribe real time actions for optimizing andor mitigating unexpected events observing and evaluating the operating profile of the system. Though the concept originated earlier as a natural aspect of computer simulation generally, the first practical...
A megastructure is a very large artificial object, although the limits of precisely how large vary considerably. Some apply the term to any especially large or tall building. Some sources define a megastructure as an enormous self-supporting artificial construct. Most megastructure designs could not be constructed with today's level of industrial technology. This makes their design examples of speculative engineering. Those that could be constructed tend to qualify as megaprojects. Examples of megaprojects are the Zuiderzee Works in the Netherlands and Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the UAE. Megastructures are also an architectural concept popularized in the 1960s where a city could be encased in a single building, or a relatively small number of buildings interconnected. In 1968, Ralph Wilcoxen defined a megastructure as any structural framework into which rooms, houses, or other small buildings can later be installed, uninstalled, and replaced and which is capable of unlimited extension. This type of framework allows the structure to adapt to the individual wishes of its residents, even as those wishes change with time. Other sources define a megastructure...
In engineering, deformation is the change in size or shape of an object when subjected to force, and may be elastic or plastic depending on whether the deformation is reversible when the actuating force is removed. An object's intrinsic resistance to deformation is known as its stiffness or rigidity. If the deformation is negligible under stress, the object is said to be rigid conversely, it is said to be flexible or pliable.  Main concepts  Occurrence of deformation in engineering applications is based on the following background concepts: Displacements are any change in position of a point on the object, including whole-body translations and rotations . Deformation are changes in the relative position between internals points on the object, excluding rigid transformations, causing the body to change shape or size. Strain is the relative internal deformation, the dimensionless change in shape of an infinitesimal cube of material relative to a reference configuration. Mechanical strains are caused by mechanical stress, see stress-strain curve. The relationship between stress and strain is generally linear and reversible up until the yield point and the deformation...
Precision engineering is a subdiscipline of electrical engineering, software engineering, electronics engineering, mechanical engineering, and optical engineering concerned with designing machines, fixtures, and other structures that have exceptionally low tolerances, are repeatable, and are stable over time. These approaches have applications in machine tools, MEMS, NEMS, optoelectronics design, and many other fields. Precision engineering is a branch of engineering that focuses on the design, development and manufacture of product with high levels of accuracy and repeatability. It involves the use of advanced technologies and techniques to achieve tight tolerance and dimensional control in the manufacturing process.  Overview  Professors Hiromu Nakazawa and Pat McKeown provide the following list of goals for precision engineering: Create a highly precise movement. Reduce the dispersion of the product's or part's function. Eliminate fitting and promote assembly, especially automatic assembly. Reduce the initial cost. Reduce the running cost. Extend the life span. Enable the design safety factor to be lowered. Improve interchangeability of components so that corresponding parts...
Porsche Engineering was established in 2001 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Porsche AG, with headquarters in Weissach, and traces its history back to 1931 when Porsche created its first engineering office subsidiary. Porsche Engineering Group has been re-organized into Porsche Consulting and Porsche Engineering . Porsche Engineering has offered consultancy services to various other car manufacturers for many years including Audi, Mercedes-Benz, Opel, Studebaker, Lada, SEAT, and Zastava Automobiles. Since 2012 the company has managed the former FIAT owned Nard Ring in Italy.  Notable non-Porsche products  Torsion bar suspension developed by Porsche, was patented in 1931 Lada Niva engineered with help of Porsche Lada Samara was partly developed by Porsche in 1984 SEAT Ibiza engine in 1984 Harley-Davidson Revolution 60-degree v-twin water-cooled engine and gearbox that is used in their V-Rod motorcycle Audi RS2 1993 C88 a prototype family car designed in 1994 by Porsche for the Chinese government Opel Zafira complete vehicle development resulting in the Zafira A launched in...
Mechatronics engineering, also called mechatronics, is the synergistic integration of mechanical, electrical, and computer systems employing mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, electronic engineering and computer science and engineering, and includes a combination of robotics, computer science, telecommunications, systems, control, automation and product engineering. As technology advances over time, various subfields of engineering have succeeded in both adapting and multiplying. The intention of mechatronics is to produce a design solution that unifies each of these various subfields. Originally, the field of mechatronics was intended to be nothing more than a combination of mechanics, electrical and electronics, hence the name being a portmanteau of the words mechanics and electronics however, as the complexity of technical systems continued to evolve, the definition had been broadened to include more technical areas. Many people treat mechatronics as a modern buzzword synonymous with automation, robotics and electromechanical engineering. French standard NF E 01-010 gives the following definition: approach aiming at the synergistic integration of mechanics, electronics...
In engineering, a dog is a tool or part of a tool, such as a pawl, that prevents or imparts movement through physical engagement. It may hold another object in place by blocking it, clamping it, or otherwise obstructing its movement. Or it may couple various parts together so that they move in unison - the primary example of this being a flexible drive to mate two shafts in order to transmit torque. Some devices use dog clutches to lock together two spinning components. In a manual transmission, the dog clutches, or dogs lock the selected gear to the shaft it rotates on. Unless the dog is engaged, the gear will simply freewheel on the shaft. This word usage is a metaphor derived from the idea of a dog biting and holding on, the dog name derived from the basic idea of how a dog jaw locks on, by the movement of the jaw, or by the presence of many teeth. In engineering the dog device has some special engineering work when making it - it is not a simple part to make as it is not a simple bar or pipe, and the metal used in its construction is likely to be special rather than regular steel. There is potential for confusion as dog tensioners are levers that are named due to...
Information engineering is the engineering discipline that deals with the generation, distribution, analysis, and use of information, data, and knowledge in electrical systems. The field first became identifiable in the early 21st century. The components of information engineering include more theoretical fields such as electromagnetism, machine learning, artificial intelligence, control theory, signal processing, and microelectronics, and more applied fields such as computer vision, natural language processing, bioinformatics, medical image computing, cheminformatics, autonomous robotics, mobile robotics, and telecommunications. Many of these originate from computer engineering, as well as other branches of engineering such as electrical engineering, computer science and bioengineering. The field of information engineering is based heavily on engineering and mathematics, particularly probability, statistics, calculus, linear algebra, optimization, differential equations, variational calculus, and complex analysis. Information engineers often hold a degree in information engineering or a related area, and are often part of a professional body such as the Institution of Engineering...
Robb Engineering was a metals manufacturer that was located in Amherst, Nova Scotia, Canada in the early 1900s. Originally started as a tinsmithy, the factory eventually expanded to the manufacture of boilers, electric engines and small generator plants. Some evidence exists that attempts were also made by the company to design and manufacture locomotive engines as well as a small venture into shipwork. In 1964 Robb Engineering was acquired by the Dominion Bridge Company. Its assets were merged into Dominion's Canada Car and Foundry subsidiary. These corporate changes saw the workforce at Dominion Bridge Company's operations in Amherst undergo major changes following the dissolution of Robb Engineering. Robb Engineering gained notoriety during the 1990s after being blamed as the maker of faulty open web steel joists. Poor welds weakened the joists. In some cases the roof joists have experienced catastrophic failure, resulting in at least 1 roof collapse. With the collapse of 3 joists in 3 separate buildings confirmed, an inspection of all governmental structures was conducted in eastern Canada surveying how many of Robb Engineering's joists were being used. Inspections costing into...
Sanitary engineering or sanitation engineering, also known as public health engineering or wastewater engineering, is the application of engineering methods to improve sanitation of human communities, primarily by providing the removal and disposal of human waste, and in addition to the supply of safe potable water. Traditionally a branch of civil engineering and now a subset of building services engineering and environmental engineering, in the mid-19th century, the discipline concentrated on the reduction of disease, then thought to be caused by miasma. This was accomplished mainly by the collection and segregation of sewerage flow in London specifically, and Great Britain generally. These and later regulatory improvements were reported in the United States as early as 1865. It is also concerned with environmental factors that do not have an immediate and clearly understood effect on public health. Areas outside the purview of sanitary engineering include aesthetic concerns such as landscaping, and environmental conservation as it pertains to plants and animals. Skills within this field are usually employed for the primary goal of disease prevention within human beings by assuring...
Osborn Engineering is an architectural and engineering firm based in Cleveland, Ohio. Founded in 1892, it is noted mostly for designing sports stadiums. More than 100 stadiums have been designed by Osborn, including such famous parks as Fenway Park in Boston, the original Yankee Stadium in New York City, Tiger Stadium in Detroit, and numerous minor league, collegiate, and major league sports facilities in all sports. They also design other structures, including infrastructure and public sector buildings, industrial and manufacturing, and parking structures.  Structures designed by Osborn Engineering  League Park, 1910 Griffith Stadium, 1911 Polo Grounds reconstruction, 1911 Tiger Stadium, 1912 Braves Field, 1915 Comiskey Park renovations, ca 1920 Sportsman's Park renovations, 1922 Kansas City Municipal Stadium, 1923 Yankee Stadium, 1923 Ross-Ade Stadium, 1924 Dill Field, 1925 Notre Dame Stadium, 1929 Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, 1930 Cleveland Municipal Stadium, 1931 Fenway Park renovations, 1934 Milwaukee County Stadium, 1951 Metropolitan Stadium, 1955 RFK Stadium, 1959 WVU Coliseum, 1968 Three Rivers Stadium, 1970 Jacobs Field, 1994 Ohio Stadium 1999-2000 renovations Forbes Field...
Landscape engineering is the application of mathematics and science to shape land and waterscapes. It can also be described as green engineering, but the design professionals best known for landscape engineering are landscape architects. Landscape engineering is the interdisciplinary application of engineering and other applied sciences to the design and creation of anthropogenic landscapes. It differs from, but embraces traditional reclamation. It includes scientific disciplines: agronomy, botany, ecology, forestry, geology, geochemistry, hydrogeology, and wildlife biology. It also draws upon applied sciences: agricultural  horticultural sciences, engineering geomorphology, landscape architecture, and mining, geotechnical, and civil, agricultural  irrigation engineering. Landscape engineering builds on the engineering strengths of declaring goals, determining initial conditions, iteratively designing, predicting performance based on knowledge of the design, monitoring performance, and adjusting designs to meet the declared goals. It builds on the strengths and history of reclamation practice. Its distinguishing feature is the marriage of landforms, substrates, and vegetation throughout...
Mental Engineering was a public television series where show creator and host John Forde leads a panel discussion featuring critical and humorous analysis of TV commercials. The show originated as a public-access television cable TV program on the Saint Paul Neighborhood Network in St. Paul, Minnesota in 1997.  Notable guests  Nationally-known comedians and satirists frequently appeared as panelists. Past guests include Al Franken, Lizz Winstead, Sam Simon, Greg Proops, Louis C.K., Paula Poundstone, Merrill Markoe, Naomi Klein, and Jeff Cesario.  History  Forde started Mental Engineering in 1998 on cable access in St. Paul. Mental Engineering is considered by some sources to be the first public-access television show to air nationally. By September 2001, the program was airing on various public TV outlets including WGBH in Boston and WNET in New York City. In 2002, the episode Super Commercials: A Mental Engineering Special followed Super Bowl VI featured guest personalities Aisha Tyler and Lizz Winstead along with other guests from Minnesota. By the end of 2008 140 episodes had been produced.  Reviews and recognition  The series received positive reviews from...
Anna University in Tamil Nadu, India has many affiliated institutions. For the full list, see below  Anna University's Departments and University Colleges   University Departments   Government Colleges   Government Aided Colleges   Central Institutes   Constituent Colleges   Self - Financing Colleges affiliated to Anna University   References 
Biochemical engineering, also known as bioprocess engineering, is a field of study with roots stemming from chemical engineering and biological engineering. It mainly deals with the design, construction, and advancement of unit processes that involve biological organisms or organic molecules and has various applications in areas of interest such as biofuels, food, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, and water treatment processes. The role of a biochemical engineer is to take findings developed by biologists and chemists in a laboratory and translate that to a large-scale manufacturing process.  History  For hundreds of years, humans have made use of the chemical reactions of biological organisms in order to create goods. In the mid-1800s, Louis Pasteur was one of the first people to look into the role of these organisms when he researched fermentation.His work also contributed to the use of pasteurization, which is still used to this day. By the early 1900s, the use of microorganisms had expanded and was used to make industrial products. Up to this point, biochemical engineering hadn't developed as a field yet. It wasn't until 1928, when Alexander...
Larmar Engineering Company Limited is a British engineering company and former manufacturer of automobiles.  Company History  Mr. Larcombe founded the company in Margaretting in 1919. On July 9, 1942, it became a Limited company. In the summer of 1946, the production of automobiles began with the brand name of Larmar. In 1951, the production ended.  Vehicles  On offer were small cars that were specially designed for the physically disabled. The vehicle was only 80cm wide. Its body was made of plywood and aluminum. It had a side door, a seat, windshield and soft top. A single-cylinder two-stroke engine from BSA with 249 cc displacement and 8hp was mounted in the rear and drove one of the rear wheels via a chain. From 1950, a two-cylinder four-stroke engine with 350 cc displacement and 10hp was available. An example is currently held in the Lane Motor Museum, Nashville. Another unrestored example is held by The Great British Car Journey museum, Matlock, UK. Larcombe also produced a small open truck vehicle called the Lorret. This had an engine with a displacement of 490cm3. It appears no examples have survived.  Literature  Harald H. Linz, Halwart Schrader...
Neural engineering is a discipline within biomedical engineering that uses engineering techniques to understand, repair, replace, or enhance neural systems. Neural engineers are uniquely qualified to solve design problems at the interface of living neural tissue and non-living constructs.  Overview  The field of neural engineering draws on the fields of computational neuroscience, experimental neuroscience, neurology, electrical engineering, and signal processing of living neural tissue, and encompasses elements of robotics, cybernetics, computer engineering, neural tissue engineering, materials science, and nanotechnology. Prominent goals in the field include restoration and augmentation of human function via direct interactions between the nervous system and artificial devices, with an emphasis on quantitative methodology and engineering practices. Other prominent goals include better neuro imaging capabilities and the interpretation of neural abnormalities through quantitative data. Much current research is focused on understanding the coding and processing of information in the sensory and motor systems, quantifying how this processing is altered...
John Patrick Ternus is an American engineer and business executive who has been the chief executive officer of Apple since September 1, 2026. He is also a member of the company's board of directors. Ternus joined Apple's product design team in 2001 and was the company's senior vice president of hardware engineering from 2021 to 2026. Apple has credited Ternus with work on the iPad and AirPods product lines, and he oversaw hardware engineering during the company's transition from Intel processors to Apple silicon in Mac computers. Upon inheriting Jony Ive's position as senior vice president of hardware engineering, it has been widely reported by tech analysts that he has radically changed Apple's hardware and design philosophy, pivoting Apple's hardware engineering into prioritizing function over form, marking a major departure from Jony Ive's form over function focus for Apple products.  Early life and education  John Patrick Ternus was born in May 1975 in California, United States. He received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Pennsylvania in 1997. While at Penn, Ternus competed on the men's swimming team. For his senior...
Telecommunications engineering is a subfield of Electrical engineering which seeks to design and devise systems of communication at a distance. The work ranges from basic circuit design to strategic mass developments. A telecommunication engineer is responsible for designing and overseeing the installation of telecommunications equipment and facilities, such as complex electronic switching systems, and other plain old telephone service facilities, optical fiber cabling, IP networks, and microwave transmission systems. Telecommunications engineering also overlaps with broadcast engineering. Telecommunications is a diverse field of engineering connected to electronic, civil, and systems engineering. Ultimately, telecom engineers are responsible for providing high-speed data transmission services. They use a variety of equipment and transport media to design the telecom network infrastructure the most common media used by wired telecommunications today are twisted pair, coaxial cables, and optical fibers. Telecommunications engineers also provide solutions revolving around wireless modes of communication and information transfer, such as wireless telephony services, radio and satellite...
Methods engineering is a subspecialty of industrial engineering and manufacturing engineering concerned with human integration in industrial production processes.  Overview  Alternatively it can be described as the design of the productive process in which a person is involved. The task of the Methods engineer is to decide where humans will be utilized in the process of converting raw materials to finished products and how workers can most effectively perform their assigned tasks. The terms operation analysis, work design and simplification, and methods engineering and corporate re-engineering are frequently used interchangeably. Lowering costs and increasing reliability and productivity are the objectives of methods engineering. Methods efficiency engineering focuses on lowering costs through productivity improvement. It investigates the output obtained from each unit of input and the speed of each machine and man. Methods quality engineering focuses on increasing quality and reliability. These objectives are met in a five step sequence as follows: Project selection, data acquisition and presentation, data analysis, development of an ideal method based on the data analysis and...
Triumph Engineering Co Ltd was a British motorcycle manufacturing company, based originally in Coventry and then in Meriden. A new company, Triumph Motorcycles Ltd, based in Hinckley, gained the name rights after the end of the company in the 1980s and is now one of the world's major motorcycle manufacturers.  Origins  The company was started by Siegfried Bettmann, who had emigrated from Nuremberg, part of the German Empire, to Coventry in England in 1883. In 1884, aged 20, Bettmann had founded his own company, the S. Bettmann  Co. Import Export Agency, in London. Bettmann's original products were bicycles, which the company bought and then sold under its own name. Bettmann also distributed sewing machines imported from Germany. In 1886, Bettmann sought a more specific name, and the company became known as the Triumph Cycle Company. A year later, the company was registered as the New Triumph Co. Ltd, now with funding from the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company. During that year, another native of Nuremberg, Moritz Schulte, joined the company as a partner. Schulte encouraged Bettmann to transform Triumph into a manufacturing company, and in 1888 Bettmann purchased a site in Coventry...
Wind engineering is a subset of mechanical engineering, structural engineering, meteorology, and applied physics that analyzes the effects of wind in the natural and the built environment and studies the possible damage, inconvenience or benefits which may result from wind. In the field of engineering it includes strong winds, which may cause discomfort, as well as extreme winds, such as in a tornado, hurricane or heavy storm, which may cause widespread destruction. In the fields of wind energy and air pollution it also includes low and moderate winds as these are relevant to electricity production and dispersion of contaminants. Wind engineering draws upon meteorology, fluid dynamics, mechanics, geographic information systems, and a number of specialist engineering disciplines, including aerodynamics and structural dynamics. The tools used include atmospheric models, atmospheric boundary layer wind tunnels, and computational fluid dynamics models. Wind engineering involves, among other topics: Wind impact on structures Wind comfort near buildings Effects of wind on the ventilation system in a building Wind climate for wind energy Air pollution near buildings...
Engineering controls are strategies designed to protect workers from hazardous conditions by placing a barrier between the worker and the hazard or by removing a hazardous substance through air ventilation. Engineering controls involve a physical change to the workplace itself, rather than relying on workers' behavior or requiring workers to wear protective clothing. Engineering controls is the third of five members of the hierarchy of hazard controls, which orders control strategies by their feasibility and effectiveness. Engineering controls are preferred over administrative controls and personal protective equipment because they are designed to remove the hazard at the source, before it comes in contact with the worker. Well-designed engineering controls can be highly effective in protecting workers and will typically be independent of worker interactions to provide this high level of protection. The initial cost of engineering controls can be higher than the cost of administrative controls or PPE, but over the longer term, operating costs are frequently lower, and in some instances, can provide a cost savings in other areas of the process. Elimination and substitution are...
In engineering and physics, gc is a unit conversion factor used to convert mass to force or vice versa. It is defined as g c  m a F displaystyle gtextcfrac maF In unit systems where force is a derived unit, like in SI units, gc is equal to 1. In unit systems where force is a primary unit, like in imperial and US customary measurement systems, gc may or may not equal 1 depending on the units used, and value other than 1 may be required to obtain correct results. For example, in the kinetic energy formula, if gc  1 is used, then KE is expressed in foot-poundals but if gc  32.174 is used, then KE is expressed in foot-pounds.  Motivations  According to Newton's second law, the force F is proportional to the product of mass m and acceleration a: F  m a displaystyle Fpropto ma or F  K m a displaystyle FKma...
Engineering with Computers: An International Journal for Simulation-Based Engineering is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published bimonthly by Springer ScienceBusiness Media. Established in 1985, it covers research on computer simulations for engineering applications . Its current editor-in-chief is Yongjie Jessica Zhang .  Abstracting and indexing  The journal is abstracted and indexed in: Current ContentsEngineering, Computing  Technology Inspec ProQuest databases Scopus Science Citation Index Expanded zbMATH Open According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2024 impact factor of 4.9.  References   External links  Official website
Sports engineering is a sub-discipline of engineering that applies mathematics and science to develop technology, equipment, and other resources for sport. The terms sports engineering and sports technology are sometimes used interchangeably, although sports technology is often understood as the more general concept. This interdisciplinary approach further integrates knowledge from engineering, biomechanics, and physics to improve athletic performance, safety, and the scientific understanding of human movement. Engineers of this field create and analyse a wide range of products and systems, such as sporting goods, protective gear, clothing, footwear, and wearable sensors. It also covers sporting facilities, officiating and regulatory technologies, performance monitoring and training tools. Together, these technologies form an ecosystem that supports athlete participation, competition, performance, and safety. Sports engineering was first introduced by Isaac Newton's observation of a tennis ball. In the mid-twentieth century, Howard Head became one of the first inventors to apply engineering principles to improve sports equipment. Dedicated to showing the innovations in this field, the...
STEAM science, technology, engineering, art, and mathematics education is an expanded approach to teaching science, technology, engineering, and mathematics , an interdisciplinary and integrated teaching method for those four subjects. STEAM expands on STEM education by including the arts. STEAM programs aim to teach students innovation, to think critically, and to use engineering or technology in imaginative designs or creative approaches to real-world problems while building on students' mathematics and science base.  Program examples  Examples of state-based STEAM programs, guidance or related resources in the United States include: Ohio's Quality Model for STEM and STEAM Schools. By Ohio statute, a STEAM school is designated as a type of STEM school. In May 2014, Rhode Island created the STEAM Now Coalition. In 2017, Nevada enacted legislation for the creation of a State Seal of STEM Program and a State Seal of STEAM Program. The STEAM seal is given to students who have high level of proficiency in science, technology, engineering, the arts and mathematics. In South Carolina, the South Carolina State Department of Education created the South Carolina STEAM Implementation...
In physics, the number of degrees of freedom of a mechanical system is the number of independent parameters required to completely specify its configuration or state. That number is an important property in the analysis of systems of bodies in mechanical engineering, structural engineering, aerospace engineering, robotics, and other fields. As an example, the position of a train has one degree of freedom because it can be completely specified by a single value expressing the locomotive's distance along the track. Meanwhile, a basic automobile has three DOF as its position can be defined by forward-reverse drive, side-to-side inertia, and rotation. A rigid body has at most six DOF, three of translation and three of rotation. The traditional humanoid arm can be expressed as a kinematic chain with seven DOF, consisting of the three rotation axes of both the shoulder and wrist, as well as the single axis of the elbow.  Overview  As an example, the position of a train has one degree of freedom because it can be completely specified by a single value expressing the locomotive's distance along the track-which in turn controls the distance of its dependents, the attached cars. For...
Hydraulic engineering as a sub-discipline of civil engineering is concerned with the flow and conveyance of fluids, principally water and sewage. One feature of these systems is the extensive use of gravity as the motive force to cause the movement of the fluids. This area of civil engineering is intimately related to the design of bridges, dams, channels, canals, and levees, and to both sanitary and environmental engineering. Hydraulic engineering is the application of the principles of fluid mechanics to problems dealing with the collection, storage, control, transport, regulation, measurement, and use of water. Before beginning a hydraulic engineering project, one must figure out how much water is involved. The hydraulic engineer is concerned with the transport of sediment by the river, the interaction of the water with its alluvial boundary, and the occurrence of scour and deposition. The hydraulic engineer actually develops conceptual designs for the various features which interact with water such as spillways and outlet works for dams, culverts for highways, canals and related structures for irrigation projects, and cooling-water facilities for thermal power plants. 2...
This is the ToluwerrSimply repository on GitHub, the code hosting site built around the git version control system. It is the home of Simply, a self-improving AI model. The repository has 955 commits, 0 stars, and 0 forks. Simply reads articles from the internet, trains itself, and commits its progress here automatically using GitHub Actions, the feature that runs programs on GitHub's servers. Every commit is one step of learning, recorded forever in the git history.
The End of Term Web Archive is a collaborative project to archive the web presence of U.S. federal agencies during administration changes. The data produced from the project is publicly available for bulk download through the Internet Archive or Amazon Web Services Open Data Registry. Limited keyword search and replay capabilities are available through the Wayback Machine.  Background  The End of Term Web Archive was set up following a 2008 announcement from National Archives and Records Administration that they would not be archiving government websites during transition, after carrying out such crawls in 2000 and 2004. From a legal perspective, the Federal Records Act of 1950 mandates federal agencies to preserve public copies of all the materials they created. The Federal Depository Library Program administered by the US Government Printing Office is responsible for distributing these copies to a network of libraries nationwide with the goal of long-term preservation and access. However, FRA rulings do not apply to electronic records, leaving websites, online articles, datasets, and other forms of information particularly vulnerable to permanent loss. Following...
Nathaniel Dourif Friedman is an American technology executive and investor, currently head of product at Meta Superintelligence Labs. He was the chief executive officer of GitHub and former chairman of the GNOME Foundation. Friedman is currently a board member at the Arc Institute and an advisor of Midjourney.  Early life and education  Friedman attended and graduated from St. Anne's-Belfield School in 1995. In 1996, while a freshman at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Friedman befriended Miguel de Icaza on LinuxNet, the IRC network that Friedman had created to discuss Linux. As an intern at Microsoft, Friedman worked on the IIS web server. At MIT, he studied Computer Science and Mathematics and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1999.  Career  In 1999, Friedman co-founded imian originally called International Gnome Support, then Helix Code with de Icaza to develop applications and infrastructure for GNOME, the project de Icaza had started with the aim of producing a free software desktop environment. The company was later bought by Novell in 2003. At Novell, Friedman was the Chief Technology and Strategy Officer for Open Source...
llama.cpp is an open-source software library that performs inference on various large language models such as Meta's Llama model. It is co-developed alongside the GGML project, a general-purpose tensor library. Command-line tools are included with the library, alongside a server with a simple web interface. llama.cpp has been considered as the de facto standard as the core of almost all local inference tools, including Ollama and LM Studio.  Background  Towards the end of September 2022, Georgi Gerganov started work on the GGML library, a C library implementing tensor algebra. Gerganov developed the library with the intention of strict memory management and multi-threading. The creation of GGML was inspired by Fabrice Bellard's work on LibNC. Before llama.cpp, Gerganov worked on a similar library called whisper.cpp which implemented Whisper, a speech to text model by OpenAI.  Development  llama.cpp began development in March 2023 by Georgi Gerganov as an implementation of the Llama inference code in pure CC with no dependencies. This improved performance on computers without GPU or other dedicated hardware, which was a project goal. llama.cpp gained traction with users lacking...
Noto is a free font family comprising over 100 individual computer fonts, which are together designed to cover all the scripts encoded in the Unicode standard. As of November 2024, Noto covers around 1,000 languages and 162 writing systems. As of October 2016, Noto fonts cover all 93 scripts defined in Unicode version 6.1 , although fewer than 30,000 of the nearly 75,000 CJK unified ideographs in version 6.0 are covered. In total, Noto fonts cover over 77,000 characters, which is around half of the 149,186 characters defined in Unicode 15.0 . The Noto family is designed with the goal of achieving visual harmony e.g., compatible heights and stroke thicknesses across multiple languagesscripts. Commissioned by Google, the font is licensed under the SIL Open Font License. Until September 2015, the fonts were under the Apache License 2.0.  Etymology  When text is rendered by a computer, sometimes characters are displayed as substitute characters . They represent the characters that cannot be displayed because no font with the necessary characters is installed on the computer, and have sometimes been called by the...
A file signature is data used to identify or verify the content of a file. Such signatures are also known as magic numbers or magic bytes and are usually inserted at the beginning of the file. Many file formats are not intended to be read as text. If such a file is accidentally viewed as a text file, its contents will be unintelligible. However, some file signatures can be recognizable when interpreted as text. In the table below, how the file signature appears when interpreted as text in the common ISOIEC 8859-1 encoding is shown, with unprintable characters represented as the control code abbreviation or symbol, or codepage 1252 character where available, or a box otherwise. In some cases the space character is shown as .  See also  List of filename extensions - alternative for file type identification and parsing List of file formats Magic number Substitute character end-of-file marker used in many signatures file  References   External links  Gary Kessler's list of file signatures Online File Signature Database for Forensic Practitioners, a private compilation free to Law Enforcement Man page for compress, uncompress, and...
This is a list of best-selling singles in South Korea since the Korea Music Content Industry Association began tracking sales figures for digital downloads in 2010. All singles listed here have sold at least three million copies. Indie pop band Busker Busker's 2012 single Cherry Blossom Ending is the best-selling song in South Korea since 2010, with eight million copies sold as of 2021. Pop soloist IU has six songs on the list, the most of any artist.  Background  In 2010, the Korea Music Content Industry Association established the Gaon Chart, a weekly record chart that tabulates both physical and digital music sales. Gaon first published digital download figures for songs in February 2011, when it released a list of the best-selling songs of 2010. On March 11, 2011, Gaon began publishing the weekly Gaon Download Chart, which included sales figures for songs. Gaon stopped releasing weekly sales figures for songs in 2018 and introduced a certification system that recognizes songs that reach at least 2.5 million downloads. The chart also periodically reports sales figures for songs released before the introduction of the certification...
The College of Commissioners-General French: Collge des Commissaires-generaux was a body of university graduates that acted as the third government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo under the leadership of Albert Ndele from 20 September 1960 to 3 October 1960 and Justin Marie Bomboko from 3 October 1960 until 9 February 1961.  Background  On 24 June 1960 the Lumumba Government was installed as the first indigenous government of the new Republic of the Congo. Independence followed on 30 June 1960, but governing became chaotic amid an army mutiny, disorder, and Belgian intervention. Throughout August 1960 President Joseph Kasa-Vubu became increasingly bothered by Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba's growing authoritarianism, the collapse in administration, and the enlarging prospects of civil war. On 5 September Kasa-Vubu announced the revocation of Lumumba's ministerial mandate, along with the dismissal of Deputy Prime Minister Antoine Gizenga, three other ministers, and two secretaries of state over the radio. He stated that the President of the Senate, Joseph Ilo, would form a new government. After Lumumba heard of the firing he held heated discussions...
J. Hyatt Brown is an American billionaire businessman and politician in the state of Florida. Brown was born in Orlando and grew up in Daytona Beach. He attended the University of Florida and works in the insurance industry. Brown sat in the Florida House of Representatives for the 31st district, as a Democrat, from 1972 to 1980. From 1978 to 1980, he was Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives. In 2009, Brown retired as CEO of his insurance agency, Brown  Brown. In March 2018, he was worth an estimated 1.1 billion. In 2012, Brown and his wife Cici donated 13 million to the Museum of Arts and Sciences in Daytona Beach for the construction of the Brown Museum, which opened in early 2015. In 2018, Brown and his wife donated 18 million to Stetson University and pledged 15 million to improve Daytona Beach's Riverfront Park.  References 
Athikkayam is a village located in the Pathanamthitta district of Kerala State, India. It is a small village that is situated on the bank of the Pamba River It's one of the 11 villages in Ranni taluk.  Climate   References   Suburbs of Athikkayam  Kadumeenchira, Madanthamon, Chempanoli Kakkudumon, Kannampally, Ponnampara Adichipuzha, Mukkam, Naranammoozhy Kudamurutty, Kochukulam, Thonikkadavu Perumthenaruvi, Kurumbanmoozhy Edamury, Thombikandom,
The 1891-92 season was Newton Heath LYR's third and final season in the Football Alliance. They applied for election to the Football League towards the end of the season, and, due to their second-place finish in the Alliance, the League accepted the application. The club also took part in the FA Cup, reaching the Fourth Qualifying Round the Lancashire Senior Cup, in which they were knocked out by Bury in the first round and the Manchester Senior Cup, in which they reached the semi-finals before being knocked out by Bolton Wanderers.  Football Alliance   FA Cup   Lancashire Senior Cup   Manchester Senior Cup   References 
The Zanclean is the lowest stage or earliest age on the geologic time scale of the Pliocene. It spans the time between 5.332  0.005 Ma and 3.6  0.005 Ma. It is preceded by the Messinian Age of the Miocene Epoch, and followed by the Piacenzian Age. The Zanclean can be correlated with regionally used stages, such as the Opoitian of New Zealand, and the Tabianian or Dacian of Central Europe. It also corresponds to the late Hemphillian to mid-Blancan North American Land Mammal Ages. In California, the Zanclean roughly corresponds to the middle part of the Delmontian stage.  Definition  The Zanclean Stage was introduced by Giuseppe Seguenza in 1868. It is named after Zancle, the pre-Roman name for the Italian city of Messina on Sicily. The base of the Zanclean lies with the top of magnetic chronozone Cr3 about 100,000 years before the Thvera normal subchronozone C3n.4n. The base is also close to the extinction level of the calcareous nanoplankton species Triquetrorhabdulus rugosus and the first appearance of nanoplankton Ceratolithus acutus. The GSSP for the Zanclean is in the vicinity of the ruins of the ancient...
Derek Pell is a visual artist, photographer, writer and satirist. He was the editor in chief of Zoom Street Magazine. He was editor of DingBat Magazine for 12 years, and a contributing editor to PC Laptop. Under both his name and his pen names, most notably Norman Conquest. Derek Pell has authored more than 30 books, many of which he designed and illustrated, including the Doktor Bey series, Bewildering Beasties, Assassination Rhapsody, Lost In Translation, and The Little Red Book of Adobe LiveMotion, along with several collections of his work.  Biography  Derek Pell dropped out of the Art Institute of Chicago in the late 1960s and opened The Not Guilty Bookshop  Press on Martha's Vineyard. His writing and art began appearing in publications of experimental literature under various pseudonyms, most notably Doktor Bey and Norman Conquest. His primary style was incorporating mixed-media and using collage-text and cut and paste techniques. After the success of his Doktor Bey series in the late 1970s, Derek Pell moved to Los Angeles in the eighties, during this period he was charged by the FBI for defacing US currency while working on a mail-art performance. He began experimenting...
Irreligion in Israel is difficult to measure. Though Israeli Jewish society is highly secularized when compared to the rest of the Middle East, the importance of religion in state life leaves little room for total disengagement from it. Some 20 of Israeli Jews do not believe in a deity, and some 15 claim to observe no religious practices. Israeli Arab society is much more religious, with any degree of secularity barely acknowledged.  Definitions and statistics  Measurement of religiosity or the lack thereof are particularly complex in the Israeli context. Religion plays a central part in the national and societal level Israelis are involuntarily registered as members of the state's fourteen recognized autonomous faith communities, which exercise control over marriage, burial and other matters of personal status. Society is clearly divided along ethno-religious lines. Even subjectively, when polled, hardly anyone identifies as having no religion. Some 4.5 of the populace are religiously unclassified, a legal status conferred upon anyone including Karaites, Buddhists, and other faith groups who is not a member of a recognized religion. Many of the unclassified are Russian...
Micromonospora fulviviridis is an endophytic actinomycete.  References   Further reading  Carro, Lorena et al. . Diversity of Micromonospora strains isolated from nitrogen fixing nodules and rhizosphere of Pisum sativum analyzed by multilocus sequence analysis. Systematic and Applied Microbiology. 35 : 73-80. doi:10.1016j.syapm.2011.11.003. PMID 22221858.  External links  Micromonospora fulviviridis. The Encyclopedia of Life. LPSN Type strain of Micromonospora fulviviridis at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Elysian Grove is a street in the town and community of Aberystwyth, Ceredigion, Wales, which is 74 miles from Cardiff. The area was built up in the 1930s. Prior to this, Elysian Grove, also known as Panglais Dingle, referred to an area on the lower slopes of Panglais Hill. It was well known as an entertainment venue, with an open-air stage during the summer, mainly offering concerts and pierrot. There was also a pay-for-entry playground and woodland walks run by the Penglais Estate. Live outdoor entertainment began on the site in the late 1890s and continued until 1926. A contract for a 1,000-seat pavilion was tendered in 1908. and built by 1910. The remains of the stage, located slightly uphill of the start of Dan-Y-Coed, were still visible in the 1970s.  See also  List of localities in Wales by population  References   External links  Peter Davis Digitised Postcards Collection:Coflein, postcard depicting a woodland walk in Elysian Grove.
Nealyda is a genus of moths in the family Gelechiidae.  Species  Nealyda accincta Meyrick, 1923 Nealyda bicolor Nealyda bifidella Dietz, 1900 Nealyda bougainvilleae Hering, 1955 Nealyda grandipinella Bennett  Hayden, 2024 Nealyda kinzelella Busck, 1900 Nealyda leucozostra Meyrick, 1923 Nealyda neopisoniae Clarke, 1946 Nealyda panchromatica Nealyda phytolaccae Clarke, 1946 Nealyda pisoniae Busck, 1900  References 
The year 1652 in music involved some significant events.  Events  Adam Drese becomes Kapellmeister to Duke Wilhelm IV of Saxe-Weimar. Anthoni van Noordt becomes the organist of Nieuwezijdskapel. Giovanni Antonio Pandolfi Mealli becomes court musician at Innsbruck  Publications  Henry Du Mont - Cantica sacra, a collection of sacred music  Classical music  Denis Gaultier - Le Rhtorique des Dieux , a manuscript collection of 56 lute pieces  Opera  Antonio Bertali - Niobe Francesco Cavalli - Eritrea  Births  April 28 - Magdalena Sibylla of Hesse-Darmstadt, composer of hymns May 14 - Johann Philipp Frtsch, composer and doctor date unknown - Diego araba, composer  Deaths  February 17 - Gregorio Allegri, Italian composer April 21 - Pietro Della Valle, traveller, composer and writer on music July 24 - Johann Weichmann, composer November - Charles Fleury, lutenist date unknown - Filipe de Magalhes, choirmaster and composer  References 
Ji Jung-hee is a South Korean female professional volleyball player. She was part of the South Korea women's national volleyball team. She participated at the 2005 FIVB World Grand Prix, 2006 FIVB World Grand Prix, and 2007 FIVB World Grand Prix. She played with Daejeon KGC.  References   External links  FIVB profile South Korea's Ji Jung-Hee and Choi Kwang-Hee tries to block Brazil's...
Kenneth Kaushansky is an American medical doctor, hematologist, former editor of the medical journal Blood, and served as the dean of the Stony Brook University School of Medicine from 2010 to 2021. Prior to moving to Stony Brook, he was the Helen M. Ranney Professor and chair of the Department of Medicine at the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine.  Early life and education  Kaushansky was born on October 20, 1953, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The family migrated to the United States when Kaushansky was two years old. Kaushansky graduated from UCLA in 1975, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, with a B.S. in biochemistry. He stayed at UCLA to obtain his medical degree in 1979. He completed his internship and residency in hematology at the University of Washington in Seattle. Kaushansky was appointed Chief Resident at the Swedish Medical Center in Seattle, Washington, in 1982. He completed his fellowship in hematology at the University of Washington. During his time in Seattle, he was honored with the NIH Physician Scientist Award in 1984, given to promising physician-scientists early in their careers. He was also awarded the junior faculty...
Zvi Jagendorf Hebrew   born February 18, 1936, in Vienna, Austria is an Israeli writer. Together with his parents, Zvi Jagendorf managed to escape Austria to the United Kingdom in 1939. He studied English literature at Oxford University and emigrated to Israel after graduating in 1958. Jagendorf taught English literature and theater studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He has also appeared as an actor, theater critic and translator, but he became known to a larger audience as the author of numerous short stories and two novels. His autobiographically inspired 2001 debut novel, Wolfy and the Strudelbakers was nominated for the Booker Prize and the Wingate Prize and awarded the Sagittarius Prize. His second novel, Coming Soon: The Flood, is set in 1960s Jerusalem.  References 
The Embassy of the State of Palestine in New Delhi is the diplomatic mission of the State of Palestine in India. It is located in Chanakyapuri in New Delhi.  See also  India-Palestine relations Diplomatic missions in India Diplomatic missions of the State of Palestine  References 
Wishing Upon the Shooting Stars is a Taiwanese BL fantasy romance television series produced by YYS Media and D Yng Zhzu, directed by Jiang Ruizhi. The series is based on the work  by writer Zhong Minrui, published by Chiu Ko Publishing House. It is the fifth BL production by YYS Media, following Be Loved in House and Unknown. The series premiered on March 26, 2026, exclusively in Taiwan on LINE TV and internationally on Viki and GagaOOLala.  Synopsis  The story follows a disillusioned young man who returns to his hometown on an island. In a moment of despair, he wishes upon a shooting star to disappear. The next day, he wakes up in a new body and discovers that he has been completely forgotten by everyone. On this fantastic journey, he reunites with his old high school love, and together they seek to reconnect and heal from past traumas.  Cast   Main  Zhong Yuexuan as He iangyong  Zhong iaoyou Chu Menghsuan as Chen Haowei Yu Jieen as Li Wanzhe Gewu iaotai as Hamaguchi Canghai  Recurring  Li Liren as Uncle He Qiu Kaiwei as Uncle Hua Cao Lan as Angela ice shop owner, Li Wanzhe...
Unbinilium, also known as eka-radium or element 120, is a hypothetical chemical element it has symbol Ubn and atomic number 120. Unbinilium and Ubn are the temporary systematic IUPAC name and symbol respectively, which are used until the element is discovered, confirmed, and a permanent name is decided upon. In the periodic table of the elements, it is expected to be an s-block element, an alkaline earth metal, and the second element in the eighth period. It has attracted attention because of some predictions that it may be in the island of stability. Unbinilium has not yet been synthesized, despite multiple attempts from German and Russian teams. Experimental evidence from these attempts shows that the period 8 elements would likely be far more difficult to synthesise than the previous known elements. New attempts by American, Russian, and Chinese teams to synthesize unbinilium are planned to begin in the mid-2020s in particular, an attempt to synthesize the element was ongoing as of September 2025, at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in the United States. Unbinilium's position as the seventh alkaline earth metal suggests that it would have similar properties to its lighter...
Copernicium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Cn and atomic number 112. Its known isotopes are extremely radioactive, and have only been created in a laboratory. The most stable known isotope, copernicium-285, has a half-life of approximately 30 seconds. Copernicium was first created in February 1996 by the GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research near Darmstadt, Germany. It was named after the astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus on his 537th anniversary. In the periodic table of the elements, copernicium is a d-block transactinide element and a group 12 element. During reactions with gold, it has been shown to be an extremely volatile element, so much so that it is possibly a gas or a volatile liquid at standard temperature and pressure. Copernicium is calculated to have several properties that differ from its lighter homologues in group 12, zinc, cadmium and mercury due to relativistic effects, it may give up its 6d electrons instead of its 7s ones, and it may have more similarities to the noble gases such as radon rather than its group 12 homologues. Calculations indicate that copernicium may show the oxidation state 4, while mercury shows it in only one compound of...
Group 3 is the first group of transition metals in the periodic table. This group is closely related to the rare-earth elements. It contains the four elements scandium , yttrium , lutetium , and lawrencium . The group is also called the scandium group or scandium family after its lightest member. The chemistry of the group 3 elements is typical for early transition metals: they all essentially have only the group oxidation state of 3 as a major one, and like the preceding main-group metals are quite electropositive and have a less rich coordination chemistry. Due to the effects of the lanthanide contraction, yttrium and lutetium are very similar in properties. Yttrium and lutetium have essentially the chemistry of the heavy lanthanides, but scandium shows several differences due to its small size. This is a similar pattern to those of the early transition metal groups, where the lightest element is distinct from the very similar next two. All the group 3 elements are rather soft, silvery-white metals, although their hardness increases with atomic number. They quickly tarnish in air and react with water, though their reactivity is masked by the formation of an oxide layer...
In chemistry, a transition metal is a chemical element in the d-block of the periodic table , though the elements of group 12 are sometimes excluded. The lanthanide and actinide elements are called inner transition metals and are sometimes considered to be transition metals as well. They are lustrous metals with good electrical and thermal conductivity. Most with the exception of group 11 and group 12 are hard and strong, and have high melting and boiling temperatures. They form compounds in any of two or more different oxidation states and bind to a variety of ligands to form coordination complexes that are often coloured. They form many useful alloys and are often employed as catalysts in elemental form or in compounds such as coordination complexes and oxides. Most are strongly paramagnetic because of their unpaired d electrons, as are many of their compounds. All of the elements that are ferromagnetic near room temperature are transition metals or inner transition metals . English chemist Charles Rugeley Bury first used the word transition in this context...
A chemical compound is a chemical substance composed of many identical molecules containing atoms from more than one chemical element held together by chemical bonds. A molecule consisting of atoms of only one element is therefore not a compound. A compound can be transformed into a different substance by a chemical reaction, which may involve interactions with other substances. In this process, bonds between atoms may be broken or new bonds formed or both. There are four major types of compounds, distinguished by how the constituent atoms are bonded together. Molecular compounds are held together by covalent bonds, ionic compounds are held together by ionic bonds, intermetallic compounds are held together by metallic bonds, and coordination complexes are held together by coordinate covalent bonds. Non-stoichiometric compounds form a disputed marginal case. A chemical formula specifies the number of atoms of each element in a compound molecule, using the standard chemical symbols with numerical subscripts. Many chemical compounds have a unique CAS number identifier assigned by the Chemical Abstracts Service. Globally, more than 350,000 chemical compounds including...
Nobelium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol No and atomic number 102. It is named after Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite and benefactor of science. A radioactive metal, it is the tenth transuranium element, the second transfermium, and is the fourteenth member of the actinide series. Like all elements with atomic number over 100, nobelium can only be produced in particle accelerators by bombarding lighter elements with charged particles. A total of twelve nobelium isotopes are known to exist the most stable is 259No with a half-life of 58 minutes, but the shorter-lived 255No is most commonly used in chemistry because it can be produced on a larger scale. Chemistry experiments have confirmed that nobelium behaves as a heavier homolog to ytterbium in the periodic table. The chemical properties of nobelium are not completely known: they are mostly only known in aqueous solution. Before nobelium's discovery, it was predicted that it would show a stable 2 oxidation state as well as the 3 state characteristic of the other actinides these predictions were later confirmed, as the 2 state is much more stable than the 3 state in aqueous solution...
A systematic element name is the temporary name assigned to an unknown or recently synthesized chemical element. A systematic symbol is also derived from this name. In chemistry, a transuranic element receives a permanent name and symbol only after its synthesis has been confirmed. In some cases, such as the Transfermium Wars, controversies over the formal name and symbol have been protracted and highly political. In order to discuss such elements without ambiguity, the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry uses a set of rules, adopted in 1978, to assign a temporary systematic name and symbol to each such element. This approach to naming originated in the successful development of regular rules for the naming of organic compounds.  IUPAC rules  The temporary names derive systematically from the element's atomic number, and apply only to 101  Z  999. Each digit is translated into a numerical root according to the table. The roots are concatenated, and the name is completed by the suffix -ium. Some of the roots are Latin and others are Greek, to avoid two digits starting with the same letter for example, the Greek-derived pent is used instead of the Latin...
The alkaline earth metals are six chemical elements in group 2 of the periodic table. They are beryllium , magnesium , calcium , strontium , barium , and radium . The elements have very similar properties: they are all shiny, silvery-white, somewhat reactive metals, and they are less reactive than the alkali metals at standard temperature and pressure. Together with helium, these elements have in common an outer s orbital which is full-that is, this orbital contains its full complement of two electrons, which the alkaline earth metals readily lose to form cations with charge 2, and an oxidation state of 2. Helium is grouped with the noble gases and not with the alkaline earth metals, but it is theorized to have some similarities to beryllium when forced into bonding and has sometimes been suggested to belong to group 2. All the discovered alkaline earth metals occur in nature, although radium occurs only through the decay chain of uranium and thorium and not as a primordial element. There have been experiments, all unsuccessful, to try to synthesize element 120, the next potential member of the group.  Characteristics   Chemical  As with other groups...
Fluorine is a chemical element it has the symbol F and atomic number 9. It is the lightest halogen and exists at standard conditions as pale yellow diatomic gas. Fluorine is extremely reactive as it reacts with all other elements except for the light noble gases. Fluorine in its elemental form is highly toxic. Among the elements, fluorine ranks 24th in cosmic abundance and 13th in crustal abundance. Fluorite, the primary mineral source of fluorine, which gave the element its name, was first described in 1529 as it was added to metal ores to lower their melting points for smelting, the Latin verb fluo meaning 'to flow' gave the mineral its name. Proposed as an element in 1810, fluorine proved difficult and dangerous to separate from its compounds, and several early experimenters died or sustained injuries from their attempts. Only in 1886 did French chemist Henri Moissan isolate elemental fluorine using low-temperature electrolysis, a process still employed for modern production. Industrial production of fluorine gas for uranium enrichment, its largest application, began during the Manhattan Project in World War II. Owing to the expense of refining pure fluorine, most commercial applications...
Californium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Cf and atomic number 98. It was first synthesized in 1950 at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory then the University of California Radiation Laboratory by bombarding curium with alpha particles . It is an actinide element, the sixth transuranium element to be synthesized, and has the second-highest atomic mass of all elements that have been produced in amounts large enough to see with the naked eye . It was named after the university and the U.S. state of California. Two crystalline forms exist at normal pressure: one above and one below 900 C . A third form exists at high pressure. Californium slowly tarnishes in air at room temperature. Californium compounds are dominated by the 3 oxidation state. The most stable of californium's twenty known isotopes is californium-251, with a half-life of 898 years. This short half-life means the element is not found in significant quantities in the Earth's crust. 252Cf, with a half-life of about 2.645 years, is the most common isotope used and is produced at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the United States and Research Institute...
Bohrium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Bh and atomic number 107. It is named after Danish physicist Niels Bohr. As a synthetic element, it can be created in particle accelerators but is not found in nature. All known isotopes of bohrium are highly radioactive the most stable known isotope is 270Bh with a half-life of approximately 2.4 minutes, though the unconfirmed 278Bh may have a longer half-life of about 11.5 minutes. In the periodic table, it is a transactinide element in the d-block. It is a member of the 7th period and belongs to the group 7 elements as the fifth member of the 6d series of transition metals. Chemistry experiments have confirmed that bohrium behaves as the heavier homologue to rhenium in group 7. The chemical properties of bohrium are characterized only partly, but they compare well with the chemistry of the other group 7 elements.  Superheavy elements   History   Discovery  Two groups claimed discovery of the element. Evidence of bohrium was first reported in 1976 by a Soviet research team led by Yuri Oganessian, in which targets of bismuth-209 and lead-208 were bombarded with accelerated nuclei of chromium-54 and manganese-55, respectively...
Flerovium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Fl and atomic number 114. It is an extremely radioactive, superheavy element, named after the Flerov Laboratory of Nuclear Reactions of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna, Russia, where the element was discovered in 1999. The lab's name, in turn, honours Russian physicist Georgy Flyorov  in Cyrillic, hence the transliteration of yo to e. IUPAC adopted the name on 30 May 2012. The name and symbol had previously been proposed for element 102 but were not accepted by IUPAC at that time. It is a transactinide in the p-block of the periodic table. It is in period 7 and is the heaviest known member of the carbon group. Initial chemical studies in 2007-2008 indicated that flerovium was unexpectedly volatile for a group 14 element. More recent results show that flerovium's reaction with gold is similar to that of copernicium, showing it is very volatile and may even be gaseous at standard temperature and pressure. Nonetheless, it also seems to show some metallic properties, consistent with it being the heavier homologue of lead. Very little is known about flerovium, as it can only be produced one...
Diatomic molecules are molecules composed of only two atoms, of the same or different chemical elements. If a diatomic molecule consists of two atoms of the same element, such as hydrogen or oxygen , then it is said to be homonuclear. Otherwise, if a diatomic molecule consists of two different atoms, such as carbon monoxide or nitric oxide , the molecule is said to be heteronuclear. The bond in a homonuclear diatomic molecule is non-polar. The only chemical elements that form stable homonuclear diatomic molecules at standard temperature and pressure or at typical laboratory conditions of 1 bar and 25 C are the gases hydrogen , nitrogen , oxygen , fluorine , and chlorine , and the liquid bromine . The noble gases helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon, and radon are also gases at STP, but they are monatomic. The homonuclear diatomic gases and noble gases together are called elemental gases or molecular gases, to distinguish them from other gases that are chemical compounds. At slightly elevated temperatures, the halogens bromine and iodine also form diatomic gases. All halogens have been observed...
Tungsten is a chemical element it has symbol W and atomic number 74. It is a metal found naturally on Earth almost exclusively in compounds with other elements. It was identified as a distinct element in 1781 and first isolated as a metal in 1783. Its important ores include scheelite and wolframite, the latter lending the element its alternative name. The free element is remarkable for its robustness, especially the fact that it has the highest melting point of all known elements, at 3,422 C . It also has the highest boiling point, at 5,930 C . Its density is 19.254 gcm3, comparable with that of uranium and gold, and much higher than that of lead. Polycrystalline tungsten is an intrinsically brittle and hard material under standard conditions, when uncombined, making it difficult to work into metal. However, pure single-crystalline tungsten is more ductile and can be cut with a hard-steel hacksaw. Tungsten occurs in many alloys, which have numerous applications, including incandescent light bulb filaments, -ray tubes, electrodes in gas tungsten arc welding, superalloys, and radiation shielding. Tungsten...
Darmstadtium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Ds and atomic number 110. It is extremely radioactive: the most stable known isotope, darmstadtium-281, has a half-life of approximately 14 seconds. Darmstadtium was first created in November 1994 by the GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research in Darmstadt, Germany, after which it was named. In the periodic table, it is a d-block transactinide element. It is a member of the 7th period and is placed in the group 10 elements, although no chemical experiments have yet been carried out to confirm that it behaves as the heavier homologue to platinum in group 10 as the eighth member of the 6d series of transition metals. Darmstadtium is calculated to have similar properties to its lighter homologues, nickel, palladium, and platinum.  Introduction   History   Discovery  Darmstadtium was first discovered on November 9, 1994, at the Institute for Heavy Ion Research Gesellschaft fr Schwerionenforschung, GSI in Darmstadt, Germany, by Peter Armbruster and Gottfried Mnzenberg, under the direction of Sigurd Hofmann. The team bombarded a lead-208 target with accelerated nuclei of nickel-62 in a heavy ion accelerator and...
Francium is a chemical element it has symbol Fr and atomic number 87. It is extremely radioactive its most stable isotope, francium-223 originally called actinium K after the natural decay chain in which it appears, has a half-life of only 22 minutes. It is the second-most electropositive element, behind only caesium, and is the second rarest naturally occurring element . Francium's isotopes decay quickly into astatine, radium, and radon. The electronic structure of a francium atom is 7s1 thus, the element is classed as an alkali metal. As a consequence of its extreme instability, bulk francium has never been seen. Because of the general appearance of the other elements in its periodic table column, it is presumed that francium would appear as a highly reactive metal if enough could be collected together to be viewed as a bulk solid or liquid. Obtaining such a sample is highly improbable since the extreme heat of decay resulting from its short half-life would immediately vaporize any viewable quantity of the element. Francium was discovered by Marguerite Perey in France on January 7, 1939. Before its discovery, francium...
The classical elements typically refer to earth, water, fire, air, and aether which were proposed to explain the nature and complexity of all matter in terms of simpler substances. Ancient cultures in Greece, Angola, Tibet, India, and Mali had similar lists which sometimes referred, in local languages, to air as wind, and to aether as space. These different cultures and even individual philosophers had widely varying explanations concerning their attributes and how they related to observable phenomena as well as cosmology. Sometimes these theories overlapped with mythology and were personified in deities. Some of these interpretations included atomism the idea of very small, indivisible portions of matter, but other interpretations considered the elements to be divisible into infinitely small pieces without changing their nature. While the classification of the material world among the ancient Indians, Hellenistic Egyptians, and ancient Greeks into air, earth, fire, and water was more philosophical, scientists of the Middle Ages used practical, experimental observation to classify materials. In Europe, the ancient Greek concept, devised by Empedocles, evolved into...
Quantum chemistry, or molecular quantum mechanics, is a branch of physical chemistry which applies quantum mechanics to chemical systems to predict physical and chemical properties of molecules and materials. It often involves calculating electronic wave functions at the atomic level. These calculations make approximations to make simulations computationally feasible while capturing the relevant contributions to the computed wave functions and observable properties including the structures, spectra, and thermodynamics of a system. Quantum chemistry also covers the computation of quantum effects on molecular dynamics and chemical kinetics. Quantum chemistry studies focus on the electronic ground state and excited states of atoms, molecules, and ions. Such calculations allow chemical reactions to be described with respect to pathways, intermediates, and transition states. Spectroscopic properties may also be predicted. Typically, such studies assume the electronic wave function is adiabatically parameterized by the nuclear positions . A wide variety of approaches are used, including semi-empirical methods, density functional theory, Hartree...
Actinide chemistry is one of the main branches of nuclear chemistry that investigates the processes and molecular systems of the actinides. The actinides derive their name from the group 3 element actinium. The informal chemical symbol An is used in general discussions of actinide chemistry to refer to any actinide. All but one of the actinides are f-block elements, corresponding to the filling of the 5f electron shell lawrencium, a d-block element, is also generally considered an actinide. In comparison with the lanthanides, also mostly f-block elements, the actinides show much more variable valence. The actinide series encompasses the 15 metallic chemical elements with atomic numbers from 89 to 103, actinium through lawrencium.  Main branches   Organoactinide chemistry  In contrast to the relatively early flowering of organotransition-metal chemistry , the corresponding development of actinide organometallic chemistry has taken place largely within the past 15 or so years. During this period, 5f organometallic science has blossomed, and it is now apparent that the actinides have a rich, intricate, and highly informative organometallic...
Lutetium is a chemical element it has symbol Lu and atomic number 71. It is a silvery white metal, which resists corrosion in dry air, but not in moist air. Lutetium is the last element in the lanthanide series, and it is traditionally counted among the rare earth elements it can also be classified as the first element of the sixth-period transition metals. Lutetium was independently discovered in 1907 by French scientist Georges Urbain, Austrian mineralogist Baron Carl Auer von Welsbach, and American chemist Charles James. All of these researchers found lutetium as an impurity in ytterbium. The dispute on the priority of the discovery occurred shortly after, with Urbain and Welsbach accusing each other of publishing results influenced by the published research of the other the naming honor went to Urbain, as he had published his results earlier. He chose the name lutecium for the new element honoring the Latin name for Paris, Lutetia. In 1949 the spelling was changed to lutetium. In 1909, the priority was finally granted to Urbain and his names were adopted as official ones however, the name cassiopeium for element 71 proposed by Welsbach was used by many...
Nihonium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Nh and atomic number 113. It is extremely radioactive: its most stable known isotope, nihonium-286, has a half-life of about 10 seconds. In the periodic table, nihonium is a transactinide element in the p-block. It is a member of period 7 and group 13. Nihonium was first reported to have been created in experiments carried out between 14 July and 10 August 2003, by a Russian-American collaboration at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna, Russia, working in collaboration with the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in Livermore, California, and on 23 July 2004, by a team of Japanese scientists at Riken in Wak, Japan. The confirmation of their claims in the ensuing years involved independent teams of scientists working in the United States, Germany, Sweden, and China, as well as the original claimants in Russia and Japan. In 2015, the IUPACIUPAP Joint Working Party recognised the element and assigned the priority of the discovery and naming rights for the element to Riken. The Riken team suggested the name nihonium in 2016, which was approved in the same year. The name comes from the common Japanese name...
Rhenium is a chemical element it has symbol Re and atomic number 75. It is a silvery-gray, heavy, third-row transition metal in group 7 of the periodic table. With an estimated average concentration of 1 part per billion , rhenium is one of the rarest elements in the Earth's crust. It has one of the highest melting and boiling points of any element. It resembles manganese and technetium chemically and is mainly obtained as a by-product of the extraction and refinement of molybdenum and copper ores. It can assume a wide variety of oxidation states ranging from 3 to 7. Rhenium was originally discovered in 1908 by Masataka Ogawa, but he mistakenly assigned it as element 43 rather than element 75 and named it nipponium. It was rediscovered in 1925 by Walter Noddack, Ida Tacke and Otto Berg, who gave it its present name. It was named after the river Rhine in Europe, from which the earliest samples had been obtained and worked commercially. Nickel-based superalloys of rhenium are used in combustion chambers, turbine blades, and exhaust nozzles of jet engines. These alloys contain up to 6  rhenium, making jet engine construction the largest single use for...
A chemical formula is a way of presenting information about the chemical proportions of atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound or molecule, using chemical element symbols, numbers, and sometimes also other symbols, such as parentheses, dashes, brackets, commas and plus and minus signs. These are limited to a single typographic line of symbols, which may include subscripts and superscripts. A chemical formula is not a chemical name since it does not contain any words. Although a chemical formula may imply certain simple chemical structures, it is not the same as a full chemical structural formula. Chemical formulae can fully specify the structure of only the simplest of molecules and chemical substances, and are generally more limited in power than chemical names and structural formulae. The simplest types of chemical formulae are called empirical formulae, which use letters and numbers indicating the numerical proportions of atoms of each type. Molecular formulae indicate the simple numbers of each type of atom in a molecule, with no information on structure. For example, the empirical formula for glucose is CH2O twice as many hydrogen atoms as carbon and oxygen...
In chemistry, volatility is a material quality which describes how readily a substance vaporizes. At a given temperature and pressure, a substance with high volatility is more likely to exist as a vapour, while a substance with low volatility is more likely to be a liquid or solid. Volatility can also describe the tendency of a vapor to condense into a liquid or solid less volatile substances will more readily condense from a vapor than highly volatile ones. Differences in volatility can be observed by comparing how fast substances within a group evaporate when exposed to the atmosphere. A highly volatile substance such as rubbing alcohol will quickly evaporate, while a substance with low volatility such as vegetable oil will remain condensed. In general, solids are much less volatile than liquids, but there are some exceptions. Solids that sublimate such as dry ice or iodine can vaporize at a similar rate as some liquids under standard conditions.  Description  Volatility itself has no defined numerical value, but it is often described using vapor pressures or...
Plutonium is a chemical element it has symbol Pu and atomic number 94. It is a silvery-gray actinide metal that tarnishes when exposed to air, and forms a dull coating when oxidized. The element normally exhibits six allotropes and four oxidation states. It reacts with carbon, halogens, nitrogen, silicon and hydrogen. When exposed to moist air, it forms oxides and hydrides that can expand the sample up to 70 in volume, which in turn flake off as a powder that is pyrophoric . It is radioactive and can accumulate in bones, which makes the handling of plutonium dangerous. Plutonium was first synthesized and isolated in late 1940 and early 1941, by deuteron bombardment of uranium-238 in the 1.5-metre cyclotron at the University of California, Berkeley. First, neptunium-238 was synthesized, which then beta-decayed to form the new element with atomic number 94 and atomic weight 238 . Since uranium had been named after the planet Uranus and neptunium after the planet Neptune, element 94 was named after Pluto, which at the time was also considered a planet. Wartime secrecy prevented the University of California...
Vanadium is a chemical element it has symbol V and atomic number 23. It is a hard, silvery-grey, malleable transition metal. The elemental metal is rarely found in nature, but once isolated artificially, the formation of an oxide layer somewhat stabilizes the free metal against further oxidation. Spanish scientist Andrs Manuel del Ro discovered compounds of vanadium in 1801 by analyzing a new lead-bearing mineral he called brown lead. Though he initially presumed its qualities were due to the presence of a new element, he was later erroneously convinced by French chemist Hippolyte Victor Collet-Descotils that the element was just chromium. Then in 1830, Nils Gabriel Sefstrm generated chlorides of vanadium, thus proving there was a new element, and named it vanadium after the Scandinavian goddess of beauty and fertility, Vanads . The name was based on the wide range of colors found in vanadium compounds. Del Ro's lead mineral was ultimately named vanadinite for its vanadium content. In 1867, Henry Enfield Roscoe obtained the pure element. Vanadium occurs naturally in about 65 minerals and fossil fuel deposits. It is produced in China and Russia from steel...
Unbiunium, also known as eka-actinium or element 121, is a hypothetical chemical element it has symbol Ubu and atomic number 121. Unbiunium and Ubu are the temporary systematic IUPAC name and symbol respectively, which are used until the element is discovered, confirmed, and a permanent name is decided upon. In the periodic table of the elements, it is expected to be the first of the superactinides, and the third element in the eighth period. It has attracted attention because of some predictions that it may be in the island of stability. It is also likely to be the first of a new g-block of elements. Unbiunium has not yet been synthesized. It is expected to be one of the last few reachable elements with current technology the limit could be anywhere between element 120 and 124. It will also likely be far more difficult to synthesize than the elements known so far up to 118, and still more difficult than elements 119 and 120. The teams at RIKEN in Japan and at the JINR in Dubna, Russia have indicated plans to attempt the synthesis of element 121 in the future after they attempt elements 119 and 120. The position of unbiunium in the periodic table suggests that it would have similar...
Mendelevium is a synthetic chemical element it has symbol Md and atomic number 101. A metallic radioactive transuranium element in the actinide series, it is the first element by atomic number that currently cannot be produced in macroscopic quantities by neutron bombardment of lighter elements. It is the thirteenth actinide, the ninth transuranic element, and the first transfermium it is named after Dmitri Mendeleev, the father of the periodic table. Like all the transfermiums, it can only be produced in particle accelerators by bombarding lighter elements with charged particles. The element was first produced in 1955 by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles, the method still used today. Using commonly-available microgram quantities of einsteinium-253, over a million mendelevium atoms may be made each hour. The chemistry of mendelevium is typical for the late actinides, with a dominant 3 oxidation state but also a 2 oxidation state accessible in solution. All known isotopes of mendelevium have short half-lives there are currently no uses for it outside basic scientific research, and only small amounts are produced.  Discovery  Mendelevium was the ninth...
In chemistry, a free element is a chemical element that is not combined with or chemically bonded to other elements. These may either be chemically inert, or may form bonds with atoms of the same element. Metals, non-metals, and noble gases can all be found as free elements. Noble gases such as helium and argon are found in the monoatomic state due to the low reactivity of these atoms. Similarly, noble metals such as gold and platinum are also found in the pure state naturally. Non-metals are rarely found as free elements in the solid state - carbon is a notable exception, as it may be found as diamond and graphite. However, they commonly exist as gases, examples of which include molecular oxygen, ozone, and nitrogen, which together make up approximately 99 of the atmosphere. Because of their reactivity, the halogens do not naturally occur in the free elemental state, but they are both widespread and abundant in the form of their halide ions. They are, however, stable in their diatomic forms.  See also  Native metal Noble metal Native element mineral  References 
Chemical nomenclature is a set of rules to generate systematic names for chemical compounds. The nomenclature used most frequently worldwide is the one created and developed by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry . IUPAC Nomenclature ensures that each compound have only one formally accepted name known as the preferred IUPAC name. However, some compounds may have alternative names that are also accepted, known as the systematic IUPAC name which is generally taken from the common name of that compound. Preferably, the name should also represent the structure or chemistry of a compound. For example, the main constituent of white vinegar is CH3COOH, which is commonly called acetic acid and is also its recommended IUPAC name, but the systematic IUPAC name ethanoic acid is also accepted. The IUPAC's rules for naming organic and inorganic compounds are contained in two publications, known as the Blue Book and the Red Book, respectively. A third publication, known as the Green Book, recommends the use of symbols for physical quantities , while a fourth, the Gold Book, defines many technical terms...
Protactinium is a chemical element it has symbol Pa and atomic number 91. It is a dense, radioactive, silvery-gray actinide metal which readily reacts with oxygen, water vapor, and inorganic acids. It forms various chemical compounds, in which protactinium is usually present in the oxidation state 5, but it can also assume 4 and even 3 or 2 states. Concentrations of protactinium in the Earth's crust are typically a few parts per trillion, but may reach up to a few parts per million in some uraninite ore deposits. Because of its scarcity, high radioactivity, and high toxicity, there are currently no uses for protactinium outside scientific research, and for this purpose, protactinium is mostly extracted from spent nuclear fuel. It is also the only highly radioactive mononuclidic element that is not also monoisotopic, occurring almost exclusively through the decay of Uranium-235. The element was first identified in 1913 by Kazimierz Fajans and Oswald Helmuth Ghring and named brevium because of the short half-life of the specific isotope studied, 234mPa. A more stable isotope of protactinium, 231Pa, was discovered in 191718 by Lise Meitner in collaboration with Otto Hahn, and...
Neptunium is a chemical element it has symbol Np and atomic number 93. A radioactive actinide metal, neptunium is the first transuranic element. It is named after Neptune, the planet beyond Uranus in the Solar System, which uranium is named after. A neptunium atom has 93 protons and 93 electrons, of which seven are valence electrons. Neptunium metal is silvery and tarnishes when exposed to air. The element occurs in three allotropic forms and it normally exhibits five oxidation states, ranging from 3 to 7. Like all actinides, it is radioactive, poisonous, pyrophoric, and capable of accumulating in bones, which makes the handling of neptunium dangerous. Although many false claims of its discovery were made over the years, the element was first synthesized by Edwin McMillan and Philip H. Abelson at the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory in 1940. Since then, most neptunium has been and still is produced by neutron irradiation of uranium in nuclear reactors. The vast majority is generated as a by-product in conventional nuclear power reactors. While neptunium itself has no commercial uses at present, it is used as a precursor for the formation of plutonium-238, which is in turn used in radioisotope...
A block of the periodic table is a set of elements unified by the atomic orbitals their valence electrons or vacancies lie in. The term seems to have been first used by Charles Janet. Each block is named after its characteristic orbital: s-block, p-block, d-block, f-block and g-block. The block names are derived from the spectroscopic notation for the value of an electron's azimuthal quantum number: sharp , principal , diffuse , and fundamental . Succeeding notations proceed in alphabetical order, as g, h, etc., though elements that would belong in such blocks have not yet been found.  Characteristics  There is an approximate correspondence between this nomenclature of blocks, based on electronic configuration, and sets of elements based on chemical properties. The s-block and p-block together are usually considered main-group elements, the d-block corresponds to the transition metals, and the f-block corresponds to the inner transition metals and encompasses nearly all of the lanthanides like lanthanum, praseodymium and dysprosium and the actinides . The group 12 elements zinc, cadmium, and mercury are sometimes...
Germanium is a chemical element it has the symbol Ge and atomic number 32. It is lustrous, hard-brittle, grayish-white and similar in appearance to silicon. It is a metalloid in the carbon group that is chemically similar to silicon. Like silicon, germanium naturally reacts and forms complexes with oxygen in nature. Because it seldom appears in high concentration, germanium was found comparatively late in the discovery of the elements. Germanium ranks 50th in abundance of the elements in the Earth's crust. In 1869, Dmitri Mendeleev predicted its existence and some of its properties from its position on his periodic table, and called the element ekasilicon. On February 6, 1886, Clemens Winkler at Freiberg University found the new element, along with silver and sulfur, in the mineral argyrodite. Winkler named the element after Germany, his country of birth. Germanium is mined primarily from sphalerite , though germanium is also recovered commercially from silver, lead, and copper ores. Elemental germanium is used as a semiconductor in transistors and various other electronic devices. Historically, the first decade of semiconductor...
